It’s 2023. Quebecois separatists initiate their revolution, setting siege on Ottawa in a day. Japanese communists hijack the international fishing market, sending it into desperate turmoil. South Africa enters into civil war, aiming to finally expel its remaining Dutch influence.  The Esperanto Liberation Army campaigns across the jungles of northern South America, uprooting entire societies. Russia’s oligarchy invades Ukraine’s republic, seeking to reassemble the former Soviet Union. The Intragalactic Commonwealth declares war on the Union of Galactic Nations, hoping to unify the galaxy under one authority. The Intragalactic Kanara strikes families across the known universe, collapsing the prosperous Murdun Infrastructure Company overnight. And, I become a senior in high school. I was born into this time of great change. As galactic communication became commonplace, Earth’s social landscape transformed vastly, both on a planetary and galactic level. As the Intragalactic Kanara raged in the stars, immigrants from across the universe flooded into Earth’s atmosphere, and in particular, one from the troubled planet of Yolan, named Kanp. For a period of high school, I spent time with Kanp. He studied at Benicia High School, though to little avail because the English language proved to be a certain barrier for those native to the Yolanish system of tongues. Nonetheless, we discovered common ground between ourselves and friendship developed naturally. Once our friendship grew, we often, after school, found ourselves wading through the mucky plains outside of Benicia’s industrial park, pulling our shoes from the tight grip of the waterlogged dirt. According to Kanp, mud was common on Yolan, and is a frequent complaint amongst both the Yolanish villagers and cityfolk. Actually, we talked about mud a lot. We theorized about a race of mud-men that might live on a planet distant from Earth. There were many theories about the unexplored universe, more advanced and scientific than ours, but I still hold that our mud-men are the most believable. The one thing Kanp and I really did was talk. Talking, no matter the planet, the language, or the culture serves to be a reliable form of expression. In fact we often spoke in our respective native languages; undoubtedly, it was difficult to understand each other, but nevertheless, we did. We found the most entertainment in retelling our own stories. Kanp told me about his discovery of wild mushrooms, and I told him about my discovery of ice. Kanp told me about the time he waved his hands through a river until they pruned like raisins, and I told him about the time I plucked grass until patches of dirt grew in their place. Kanp told me about his first book and how he tried to read it upside down, and I told him about my first essay and how I received an F. No matter how much we exchanged the interesting facets of our planet’s cultures, these narratives always acted as the crown jewel of our conversations. I did not care that some Yolanish peoples say thank you before a meal, or that others refuse the open display of artwork. Likewise, Kanp did not care for the Earthish custom of dodging black cats or knocking on wood for superstitious safety. We only relished in the stories of our individual experiences. Though, our friendship did not last until 2024. The world evolved into a dangerous place since the influx of intragalactic entities. While the Murdun Infrastructure Company spread across the world, its wealthy elite introduced themselves into Earth’s bloodstream. Few Earthlings rose the company’s ranks high enough to wield influence, but those who did garnered a particular taste for the other worldly. Andrew Stummer, the most notorious among the Earth elite, embodied this policy of embracement, a large reason there is no uncertainty that he plays a vital role in sparking the Intragalactic Kanara. As part of a dicey business venture, Stummer introduced a variety of foreign species into Earth’s ecosystem. Most died early on, unable to withstand the Earth’s ecology. Thus, like a tapestry of beasts, the names of the failed animals tarnish Stummer’s name: the Cadil, the Fraqioquel, the Spontue, the Baniu, and the Ilak. But, one did survive: the Machet. Bred in the brutal environment of Bronkchat, nature designed the Machet as a vicious predator bent purely on dominating the natural cycle of life. Thus, the Machet persevered through Earth’s test. Yet for Stummer, the beast was not yet a worthy investment, first, profit must be generated. Quickly, he took advantage of its unfamiliar meat, handing out samples of it to his employees. When his employees returned mixed feedback, Stummer set his biologists to work. After some modification, the Machet’s meat became perfect. In droves, Stummer’s employees sought after the unorthodox substance, drawn not just by its taste, but also by its foreign appeal. They introduced it to their families and friends, and soon, word of a mysterious alien meat spread. Seeing opportunity to strike, Stummer brought the Machet into market. The Machet proved itself a worthy investment. All over the world, the Machet weaved itself into a diverse cast of meals. The Machet burger, the Machet dog, the Machet bun, the Machet sushi, and so on. Ultimately, Stummer not only found himself a far more wealthy man from the experiment, but also a very famous one. Although galactic technological advancements were familiar, Stummer inspired a new movement. Now, it was not only possible to taste alien food, but also to profit from it.  Therefore, Stummer’s advancement spread across the galaxy, with entrepreneurs seeking to find their fortune in the stars. Cows from Earth arrived in Yolan, Narilis from Fra Filoa landed in Bronkchat, Hofu from Zhywa gathered in Ozun. However, these galactic investors forgot Stummer’s shrewd approach of rooting out the most capable species. So, when these investors took out loans from the Intragalactic Commonwealth’s banks, hoping to receive a profit, they soon discovered that animals unable to reproduce don’t generate much of a return. At this time, these intragalactic banks depended purely on the investments of wealthy patrons, the only people actually able to participate in cross-planetary business, the Murdun Infrastructure Company being a noteworthy example. Thus when these patrons became unable to pay back their loans, the banks failed, and the companies tied to these banks came with them, as they had no government recourse to depend on because the Intragalactic Commonwealth preferred to stay out of planetary economics. This event is known as the Intragalactic Kanara; Kanara meaning in Yolanish,“disaster.” The Kanara hit Yolan particularly hard, as most of the intragalactic companies were derived from the planet and therefore possessed a significant share in its economy. Subsequently, many Yolanishmen lost their jobs and income, sending them into desperate financial plight, but instead of suffering, they left their home in search of better opportunity across the stars. Kanp came among them. Certainly, Stummer manifests as this story’s ultimate ignition, and eventually as its conclusion. As the Kanara’s impact settled, Stummer’s fortune spoiled. As it did, his once secure infrastructure faltered, the very infrastructure containing the infamous Machet. Sprouting from an industrial farm in the San Joaquin Valley of California, the Machet finally had opportunity to prove itself a challenger to Earth’s ecosystem. The Machet lived up to its vicious nature. Rampaging across the state, the Machet induced a wave of havoc in its wake. As the beasts found their way into cities, people were torn apart as Machets dove down on them in the streets. The governor swiftly ordered a lockdown until the Machet be expelled. However, one loose Machet, as the sun was setting, discovered a pair of two boys wading through the mud, disobeying the governor’s command. I don’t fully remember the story Kanp was telling me, but I know is that it was about his mother, perhaps a story of his childhood or a comedic anecdote, but it does not matter now. All I remember is as follows. A slow sloshing interrupts Kanp’s narrative. The wind playing tricks, maybe, or a duck perching under the gentle breeze. It is not a significant noise, a detail of the distant background if anything. Kanp resumes his narrative. Scanning his mind for the next segment, though, the sloshing reappears, closer now. The source of this unidentified engine no longer seems like a wind, or a duck, but more like a tree branch scraping the mud underneath the water. Yet, it is still nothing. Sounds are common in swamps, and to be lightly frightened by them as the sun’s light fades is no news. Kanp identifies a notable point. I look at him, letting him know that I would listen. But, as Kanp opens his mouth, the mysterious slosh drifts into the foreground. Kanp turns his head, aiming to finally pinpoint its source. I still look at Kanp, waiting for his story to conclude. Yet he continues to stare into the blank distance, his eyes widening with whatever he sees. Moved by his evident distress, I deign to look. Like lightning, a black shadow darts across my vision, and an object appears before me. Large, sleek, and dark with a thick coat and dagger-like teeth is the Machet. For a moment, its piercing yellow eyes absorb Kanp. Kanp’s dazed eyes acknowledge it. The two stare at each other, waiting for action to happen. The Machet acts first. Extending its teeth across the length of Kanp’s body, it briskly snaps its jaws. I glare, stunned by the sight. Soon though, the action is over, and the beast decides that its objective is fulfilled. As the Machet’s legs lift its bulk up, it glances at my vulnerable person, and, with Kanp’s blood dripping from its fangs, runs away into the mucky plains of the Benicia industrial park. It is 2024 now. I still remember Kanp. However, he is but a story for me to tell, a story of highschool in 2023. 




