‘Well, Prince, Genoa and Lucca are now nothing more than estates taken over by the Buonaparte family. 1 No, I give you fair warning. If you won’t say this means war, if you will allow yourself to condone all the ghastly atrocities perpetrated by that Antichrist – yes, that’s what I think he is – I shall disown you. You’re no friend of mine – not the “faithful slave” you claim to be . . . But how are you? How are you keeping? I can see I’m intimidating you. Do sit down and talk to me.’ These words were spoken (in French) one evening in July 1805 by the wellknown Anna Pavlovna Scherer, maid of honour and confidante of the Empress Maria Fyodorovna, as she welcomed the first person to arrive at her soirée, Prince Vasily Kuragin, a man of high rank and influence. Anna Pavlovna had had a cough for the last few days and she called it la grippe – grippe being a new word not yet in common currency. A footman of hers in scarlet livery had gone around that morning delivering notes written in French, each saying precisely the same thing: If you have nothing better to do, Count (or Prince), and if the prospect of spending an evening with a poor sick lady is not too unnerving, I shall be delighted to see you at my residence between seven and ten. ANNETTE SCHERER ‘My goodness, what a violent attack!’ replied the prince, who had only just come in and was not in the least put out by this welcome. Dressed in his embroidered court uniform with knee-breeches, shoes and stars across his chest, he looked at her with a flat face of undisturbed serenity. His French was the elegant tongue of our grandparents, who used it for thought as well as speech, and it carried the soft tones of condescension that come naturally to an eminent personage grown old in high society and at court. He came up to Anna Pavlovna and kissed her hand, presenting to her a perfumed and glistening bald pate, and then seated himself calmly on the sofa. ‘First things first,’ he said. ‘How are you, my dear friend? Put my mind at rest.’ His voice remained steady, and his tone, for all its courtesy and sympathy, implied indifference and even gentle mockery. ‘How can one feel well when one is . . . suffering in a moral sense? Can any sensitive person find peace of mind nowadays?’said Anna Pavlovna. ‘I do hope you’re staying all evening.’ ‘Well, there is that reception at the English Ambassador’s. It’s Wednesday. I must show my face,’said the prince. ‘My daughter is coming to take me there.’ ‘I thought tonight’s festivities had been cancelled. I must say all these celebrations and fireworks are becoming rather tedious.’ ‘If they had known you wanted the celebration cancelled, it would have been,’ said the prince with the predictability of a wound-up clock. Sheer habit made him say things he didn’t even mean. ‘Stop teasing me. Come on, tell me what’s been decided about Novosiltsev’s dispatch? 2 You know everything.’ ‘What is there to tell?’ replied the prince in a cold, bored tone. ‘What’s been decided? They’ve decided that Bonaparte has burnt his boats, and I rather think we’re getting ready to burn ours.’ Prince Vasily always spoke languidly, like an actor declaiming a part from an old play. Anna Pavlovna Scherer was just the opposite – all verve and excitement, despite her forty years. To be an enthusiast had become her special role in society, and she would sometimes wax enthusiastic when she didn’t feel like it, so as not to frustrate the expectations of those who knew her. The discreet smile that never left her face, though it clashed with her faded looks, gave her the appearance of a spoilt child with a charming defect that she was well aware of, though she neither wished nor felt able to correct it, nor even thought it necessary to do so. Then suddenly in the middle of this political discussion Anna Pavlovna launched forth in great excitement. ‘Oh, don’t talk to me about Austria! 3 Perhaps it’s all beyond me, but Austria has never wanted war and she still doesn’t want war. She’s betraying us. Russia alone must be Europe’s saviour. Our benefactor is aware of his exalted calling and he’ll live up to it. That’s the one thing I do believe in. The noblest role on earth awaits our good and wonderful sovereign, and he is so full of decency and virtue that God will not forsake him. He will do what has to be done and scotch the hydra of revolution, which has become more dreadful than ever in the person of this murdering villain. 4 We alone must avenge the blood of the righteous. And whom can we trust, I ask you? England, with that commercial spirit of hers, cannot understand the lofty soul of our Emperor Alexander, and never will. She has refused to evacuate Malta. 5 She keeps on looking for an ulterior motive behind our actions. What did they say to Novosiltsev? Nothing. They didn’t understand, they’re not capable of understanding, how altruistic our Emperor is – he wants nothing for himself but everything for the good of mankind. And what have they promised? Nothing. And what little they have promised, they won’t carry out. Prussia has already declared that Bonaparte is invincible and that the whole of Europe is powerless to oppose him . . . I for one don’t believe a single word from Hardenberg or Haugwitz. That much-vaunted Prussian neutrality is just a trap. I put my faith in God and the noble calling of our beloved Emperor. He’ll be the saviour of Europe!’ She stopped suddenly, amused at her own passionate outburst. ‘I think if they had sent you instead of our dear Wintzengerode,’ 6 said the prince with a similar smile, ‘an onslaught like that from you would have got the King of Prussia to agree. You are so eloquent. May I have some tea?’ ‘Yes, of course. By the way,’she added, calming down, ‘there are two very interesting men coming here tonight – the Vicomte de Mortemart, a Montmorency through the Rohan line, one of the best French families. He’s the right kind of émigré, one of the genuine ones. And the Abbé Morio – such a profound thinker. Do you know him? He’s been received by the Emperor. Have you heard?’ ‘Oh, it will be a pleasure to meet them,’said the prince. ‘But tell me,’ he added, with studied nonchalance, as if an idea had just occurred to him, though this question was the main reason for his visit, ‘is it true that the Dowager Empress wants Baron Funke to become First Secretary in Vienna? They do say he’s a miserable creature, that baron.’ Prince Vasily wanted this post for his son, but other people were working through the Empress Maria Fyodorovna to get it for the baron. Anna Pavlovna half-closed her eyes to indicate that neither she nor anyone else could pass judgement on what the Empress might feel like doing or want to do. ‘Baron Funke has been recommended to the Dowager Empress by her sister,’ was all she said, in a dry, lugubrious tone. As she pronounced the name of the Empress, Anna Pavlovna’s face took on an expression of profound and sincere devotion mixed with respect and tinged with sadness, which invariably came upon her when she had occasion to mention her exalted patroness. She said that her Majesty had been gracious enough to show Baron Funke great respect, at which her face once again dissolved into sadness. The prince said nothing and showed no feeling. Anna Pavlovna, with all the sensitivity and quick thinking of both a courtier and a woman, decided to rebuke the prince for daring to refer in such a way to a person recommended to the Empress, and at the same time to console him. ‘But, on the subject of your family,’she said, ‘do you realize how much your daughter has delighted everyone in society since she came out? They say she’s as beautiful as the day is long.’ The prince bowed as a mark of his gratitude and respect. ‘I often think,’ Anna Pavlovna resumed after a short pause, edging closer to the prince and smiling sweetly to indicate that the political and social conversation was now at an end, and personal conversation was in order, ‘I often think that good fortune in life is sometimes distributed most unfairly. Why has fate given you two such splendid children? I don’t include Anatole, your youngest – I don’t like him,’she commented in a peremptory tone and with raised eyebrows. ‘Such charming children. And I must say you seem to appreciate them less than anyone. You really don’t deserve them.’ And she smiled her exuberant smile. ‘What can I do? Lavater would have said that I have no paternity bump,’ 7 said the prince. ‘Oh, do stop joking. I wanted a serious talk with you. Listen, I’m not pleased with your younger son. Just between ourselves,’ her face went all gloomy again, ‘his name has been mentioned in her Majesty’s presence, and people are feeling sorry for you . . .’ The prince said nothing, while she gave him a knowing look, waiting in silence for his reply. Prince Vasily frowned. ‘What can I do?’ he said at last. ‘You know I’ve done everything a father could do to bring them up well, and they have both turned out to be idiots. At least Hippolyte’s a fool on the quiet – Anatole’s the rowdy one. That’s the only difference between them,’ he said, with an unusually awkward and forced smile, which gave a sharp twist to the lines round his mouth, making it surprisingly ugly and coarse. ‘Why do men like you have children? If you weren’t a father, I could find no fault with you,’said Anna Pavlovna, looking up pensively. ‘I’m your faithful slave. I wouldn’t admit it to anyone else, but my children are the bane of my life. They’re the cross I have to bear. That’s how I explain it to myself. What would you . . . ?’ He broke off with a gesture that signalled his resignation to a cruel fate. Anna Pavlovna thought things over. ‘That prodigal son of yours, Anatole, haven’t you thought of marrying him off? They do say,’she went on, ‘that old maids have a mania for matchmaking. So far I’ve never been conscious of this failing in myself, but I do have a certain little person in my mind, someone who is very unhappy with her father – a relative of ours, the young Princess Bolkonsky.’ Prince Vasily made no reply, but being quick on the uptake and good at remembering things – qualities that came naturally to the denizens of high society – he gave a slight nod to show that he had noted her comment and was considering it. ‘No, listen, do you realize that boy’s costing me forty thousand roubles a year?’ he said, obviously unable to check the dismal drift of his thinking. He paused. ‘What will it be like in five years’ time if he carries on like this? You see what the benefits of fatherhood are . . . This princess of yours, is she rich?’ ‘Her father’s a very rich man and a miser. He lives out in the country. You know, Prince Bolkonsky. He’s very well known. He retired under the late Emperor. They used to call him the “the King of Prussia”. He’s a very clever man, but he’s a crank, not easy to get on with. Poor little thing, she’s as miserable as any girl could be. It was her brother who married Liza Meinen not too long ago. He’s one of Kutuzov’s adjutants. He’s coming here tonight.’ ‘Listen, my dear Annette,’said the prince, suddenly taking his companion’s hand and pressing it downwards for reasons best known to himself. ‘You set this up for me, and I’ll serve you like a faithful slave for ever. (Or slafe, with an ‘f’, as my village elder puts it when he writes to me.) She’s a girl from a good family, and she’s rich. That’s all I need.’ And with the freedom, familiarity and sheer style that were his hallmark, he took hold of the maid of honour’s hand, kissed it and gave it a little shake, easing back into his armchair and looking away from her. ‘Wait a minute,’said Anna Pavlovna, thinking things over. ‘I’ll have a little talk with Lise, young Bolkonsky’s wife, this very evening. Perhaps something can be arranged. I’ll use your family to start learning the old maid’s trade.’ Anna Pavlovna’s drawing-room was steadily filling up. All the important people in St Petersburg society were there, varying enormously in age and character for all their shared social background. Prince Vasily’s daughter, the beautiful Hélène, had just arrived to take him on to the Ambassador’s reception; she was wearing a ballgown enhanced by a maid of honour’s monogram. The young Princess Bolkonsky, a slip of a girl known as the most seductive woman in Petersburg, was there too; married the previous winter, she no longer appeared at large occasions because she was pregnant, but she did still attend small soirées. Prince Vasily’s son, Prince Hippolyte, arrived with Mortemart, and introduced him. Also present were the Abbé Morio and many other people. Anna Pavlovna was welcoming her guests as they arrived with a ‘Have you met my aunt?’ or ‘I don’t think you know my aunt’ before steering them with great solemnity towards a little old lady with big bows in her hair, who had come sailing in from the next room as soon as the guests had begun to arrive. Anna Pavlovna would announce them by name, slowly transferring her gaze from guest to aunt, and then move on. All the guests went through the motions of greeting this aunt, who was unknown, uninteresting and unneeded by anyone. Anna Pavlovna observed their greetings with sadness and solemn sympathy, a picture of silent approval. The lady known as ‘my aunt’spoke in the same way to every new arrival, commenting on their health, her own health and the health of her Majesty, who was by now, thank God, feeling better. All those who approached were polite enough to refrain from showing undue haste, but once this onerous duty had been fulfilled they walked away from the old lady with a sense of relief, and never went near her again all evening. Young Princess Bolkonsky had brought some work with her in a goldembroidered velvet bag. Her pretty little upper lip, slightly shadowed with down, barely covered her teeth, but that made it all the prettier when it rose up and lovelier still when it curled down to meet the lower lip. As tends to happen with the best-looking women, a defect – in this case a short lip and a half-open mouth – came out as a distinctive and beautiful feature. Everyone enjoyed the sight of this pretty little mother-to-be, brimming with health and vitality and making light of her condition. After a few minutes in her company and the exchange of a word or two, old men and bored, morose young men felt as if they themselves were becoming like her. Anyone who talked to her, watching her as every word she spoke revealed that bright little smile and the constant gleam of those dazzling white teeth, walked away feeling full of bonhomie. Everybody did. The little princess waddled slightly as she tripped rapidly round the table, holding her tiny workbag, then she cheerfully smoothed down her dress and sat on a sofa near the silver samovar. Everything she did seemed like a treat for herself and everyone around her. ‘I’ve brought my work,’she said in French, opening her reticule and addressing all the company. ‘But listen, Annette, you must stop playing tricks on me,’she said, turning to the hostess. ‘You wrote and said it was only a little party. Just look what I’ve got on.’ And she spread her arms wide to display an elegant grey dress, decorated with lace and set off by a broad sash just below the bosom. ‘Don’t worry, Lise, you’ll always be the prettiest,’ answered Anna Pavlovna. ‘Did you know my husband is deserting me?’she said to a general, continuing to speak French and using just the same tone. ‘He’s going off to get himself killed. Do tell me what this awful war is all about,’she asked of Prince Vasily, but before he could answer she had moved on to his daughter, the beautiful Hélène. ‘Isn’t she a gorgeous creature, this little princess?’said Prince Vasily to Anna Pavlovna. Shortly after the little princess’s arrival, in walked a big, generously proportioned young man with close-cropped hair and spectacles, wearing the last word in light-coloured breeches and a tan coat with a jabot. This stout young man was the illegitimate son of a celebrated grandee from Catherine’s age, old Count Bezukhov, who was now on his deathbed in Moscow. He had not yet entered any branch of the service, having only just returned from abroad, where he had been completing his education. This was his first appearance in society. Anna Pavlovna welcomed him with the kind of bow she reserved for the lowest persons in the hierarchy of her drawing-room. But even as she bestowed her meanest welcome on this new arrival Anna Pavlovna’s face was transformed; she looked ill at ease and full of alarm, like someone who had come across some gross object, oversized and out of place. By a small margin Pierre was indeed the largest man in the room, but her look of dismay must surely have derived from this man’s special look – intelligent, rather diffident, but also piercing and spontaneous – that made him a distinctive figure in the drawing-room. ‘It is most kind of you, Monsieur Pierre, to come to see a poor sick woman,’ said Anna Pavlovna, looking anxiously across at her aunt as she steered him in her direction. Pierre mumbled something unintelligible, and continued to stare around the room, looking for something. He beamed with pleasure, bowed to the little princess as if she was a close friend of his, and then went over to the aunt. Anna Pavlovna’s worst fears were confirmed when Pierre walked off without hearing the full story of her Majesty’s health. Rattled, Anna Pavlovna detained him with a question. ‘You don’t know the Abbé Morio, do you? Such an interesting man . . .’ ‘Yes, I’ve heard about him and his scheme for everlasting peace. All very interesting, but not really feasible.’ ‘Don’t you think so?’ asked Anna Pavlovna for the sake of saying something before getting back to her duties as hostess, but Pierre now committed the opposite kind of faux pas. Fresh from walking away without listening properly to a lady who was speaking to him, he now talked on and detained a lady who needed to get away from him. With his head lowered and his great legs thrust wide apart, he set about explaining to Anna Pavlovna why he thought the abbé’s scheme was a silly fancy. ‘Could we talk about this later on?’smiled Anna Pavlovna. Detaching herself from this young man who had no idea how to conduct himself, she resumed her duties as hostess, watching and listening carefully, ready to render assistance at any point where the conversation was beginning to flag. Just as the foreman of a spinning-mill settles the workers down and then strolls about the place on the lookout for a breakdown or any funny noise from a spindle, the slightest squeak or knock that would bring him rushing over to ease the machinery or make an adjustment, so Anna Pavlovna patrolled her drawingroom, walking over to any group where the talk was too little or too loud, and easing the machinery of conversation back into its proper, steady hum with a single word here or a tiny manoeuvre there. But busy as she was with all these preoccupations, she was still clearly worried about Pierre. She watched him anxiously as he went over to hear what was being said in Mortemart’s circle, and then set off for a different group where the abbé was holding forth. Pierre had been educated abroad, and this evening party at Anna Pavlovna’s was his first such occasion in Russia. Knowing that all the intelligentsia of Petersburg was gathered here, he was like a child in a toyshop, his eyes darting about everywhere. He was afraid of missing any intellectual talk that might have been his to hear. As he gazed at the assembled company, their faces pictures of refinement and self-confidence, he was expecting to hear something very clever at any moment. Eventually he came over to Morio. The conversation struck him as interesting, so he stood there waiting for a chance to launch forth with his own ideas, as young people are wont to do. Anna Pavlovna’s soirée was now in full swing. On all sides the spindles were humming away non-stop. Apart from the aunt, and her sole companion, an elderly lady with a thin, careworn face, who seemed rather out of place in this brilliant society, the company had split into three groups. The one with most men in it centred around the abbé; another group, of younger people, was dominated by the beautiful Princess Hélène, Prince Vasily’s daughter, and the pretty little Princess Bolkonsky, with her blushing features and a figure too full for her young age. Mortemart and Anna Pavlovna formed part of the third group. The viscount was a pleasant-looking young man with gentle features and manners, obviously full of his own importance, but modest enough, because of his good breeding, to indulge any company that he might find himself in. Anna Pavlovna was clearly showing him off to her guests. Just as a skilful head waiter can pass off as a supreme delicacy a cut of beef that would be inedible if you’d seen it in the filthy kitchen, Anna Pavlovna served up to her guests that evening first the viscount and then the abbé as if they were supreme delicacies. In Mortemart’s group the conversation had turned to the execution of the Duke of Enghien. 8 The viscount held that the duke had perished through his own magnanimity, and there were special reasons behind Bonaparte’s animosity towards him. ‘Oh, I say! Do tell us all about it, Viscount,’said Anna Pavlovna, delighted to feel she had insinuated a touch of Louis XV9 in the old-fashioned French phrase she had used. The viscount gave a polite bow and a willing smile. Anna Pavlovna brought them into a circle around him and beckoned everyone over to hear his story. ‘The viscount was a personal friend of the duke,’she whispered to one of them, and murmured to someone else, ‘The viscount is such a good raconteur.’ To a third person she said, ‘You see – what a man of quality!’, and the viscount was presented in the most refined and advantageous light, served up like a joint of beef garnished with salad on a hot platter. The viscount was preparing to launch forth; his smile was subtle. ‘My dear Hélène, do come over here,’said Anna Pavlovna to the gorgeous princess sitting in the very centre of the other group a little way off. Princess Hélène rose with a smile, the same unchanging beautiful woman’s smile with which she had entered the room. With a gentle rustle of her white ballgown trimmed with ivy and moss, with her glistening white shoulders, glossy hair and sparkling diamonds, she moved between the men as they stepped aside to make way for her. Without looking anyone in the face, but beaming at the company in general and apparently bestowing permission for everyone to admire her wonderful figure, her full shoulders and her fashionably exposed bosom and back, she glided up to Anna Pavlovna, and the brilliance of the ballroom seemed to come with her. Hélène was so exquisite that she not only avoided the slightest hint of flirtatiousness, she even seemed to be embarrassed by the all-too-evident, truly devastating beauty that was hers. It was as if she wanted to tone down the effect of her beauty, but couldn’t do so. ‘What a beautiful woman!’said everyone who saw her. The viscount shrugged and looked down, as if transfixed by a mysterious force, as she arranged herself to sit before him, not sparing him that ever-dazzling smile. ‘Madame, I doubt my abilities in front of such an audience,’ he said, bowing with a smile. The princess rested her round, bare arm on a little table and found it unnecessary to say anything. She smiled, and she waited. Sitting up straight throughout the viscount’s story, she glanced down occasionally either at her beautiful, round arm so casually draped across the table, or at her still lovelier bosom and the diamond necklace above it that kept needing adjustment. Several times she also adjusted the folds of her gown, and whenever the narrative made a strong impact on the audience she would glance across at Anna Pavlovna in order to imitate whatever expression she could see written on the maid of honour’s face before resuming her radiant smile. The little Princess Bolkonsky had also moved away from the tea table, following Hélène. ‘Wait a minute, I must have my work,’she said. ‘Come along, what are you thinking about?’she demanded of Prince Hippolyte. ‘Please fetch my bag.’ With a smile and a word for everyone, the little princess got the whole group to rearrange itself, and then sat down and settled her skirts. ‘Now I’m all right,’she insisted, and took up her work, inviting the viscount to begin. Prince Hippolyte brought her little bag, walked round behind her, moved up a chair and sat down beside her. The ‘charming’ Hippolyte bore a close resemblance to his beautiful sister; it was even more remarkable that in spite of the similarity he was a very ugly man. His features were like his sister’s, but whereas she glowed with joie de vivre, classical beauty and the smiling self-assurance of youth, her brother’s face was just the opposite – dim with imbecility, truculent and peevish – and his body was thin and feeble. His eyes, nose and mouth – all his features seemed to twist themselves into in a vague kind of obtuse snarl, while his arms and legs were always in an awkward tangle. ‘It’s not a ghost story, is it?’ he asked, settling down next to the princess and jerking his lorgnette up to his eyes, as if he needed this instrument before he could say anything. ‘Why no, my dear fellow,’said the astonished viscount with a shrug. ‘It’s just that I can’t abide ghost stories,’said Prince Hippolyte, his tone implying that he had blurted all this out before realizing what it meant. Because of the self-confidence with which he had spoken, no one could tell whether what he had said was very clever or very stupid. He was dressed in a dark green frockcoat, stockings, light shoes and knee-breeches of a colour he referred to as ‘the thigh of a startled nymph’. The viscount then gave a nice rendition of a story that was doing the rounds. Apparently the Duke of Enghien had driven to Paris for a secret assignation with a young woman, Mlle George, only to run into Bonaparte, who was also enjoying the favours of the same famous actress. On meeting the duke, Napoleon had fallen into one of his fainting fits and had been completely at the duke’s mercy. The duke had not taken advantage of this, but Bonaparte had later rewarded his magnanimity by having him put to death. This was a very charming and interesting story, especially the bit when the rivals suddenly recognized each other, and it seemed to excite the ladies. ‘Delightful!’said Anna Pavlovna, with an inquiring glance at the little princess. ‘Delightful!’ whispered the little princess, stabbing her needle into her sewing to show that the interest and charm of the story were getting in the way of her work. With a grateful smile of appreciation at this silent tribute, the viscount resumed his narrative, but Anna Pavlovna, who never took her eyes off the dreadful young man who was worrying her so much, could hear him holding forth with the abbé too forcefully and too heatedly, so she sped across into the danger zone on a rescue mission. Sure enough, Pierre had managed to get into a political conversation with the abbé about the balance of power, and the abbé, evidently taken by young man’s naive passion, was expounding to him his cherished idea. Both men were listening too earnestly and talking too bluntly, and Anna Pavlovna didn’t like it. ‘You do it by means of the balance of power in Europe and the rights of the people,’ the abbé was saying. ‘If one powerful state like Russia – despite its reputation for barbarity – were to take a disinterested stand as the head of an alliance aimed at guaranteeing the balance of power in Europe, it would save the world!’ ‘But how are you going to get such a balance of power?’ Pierre was gathering himself to say, but at that moment Anna Pavlovna came across, glowered at Pierre and asked the Italian how he was surviving the local climate. His face changed instantly and assumed the sickly sweet, patronizing air which he obviously reserved for conversations with women. ‘I am so enchanted by the delightful wit and culture of the society people – especially the ladies – by whom I have had the good fortune to be received, that I have not yet had time to think about the climate,’ he said. Determined not to let go of the abbé and Pierre, Anna Pavlovna steered them into the larger group, where it would be easier to keep an eye on them. At this point in walked another guest, the young Prince Andrey Bolkonsky, husband of the little princess. He was quite short, but a very handsome young man, with sharp, clear-cut features. Everything about him, from his languid, bored expression to his slow and steady stride, stood in stark contrast to his vivacious little wife. He made it obvious that he knew everybody in the room, and was so fed up with the whole lot that just looking at them and listening to them drove him to distraction. And of all the wearisome faces it was the face of his own pretty wife that seemed to bore him most. With a snarl distorting his handsome face he turned away from her. He kissed Anna Pavlovna’s hand, screwed up his eyes and scanned the whole company. ‘Are you enlisting for the war, Prince?’said Anna Pavlovna. ‘General Kutuzov has been kind enough to want me as an aide,’said Bolkonsky, saying ‘Kutuzóv’, like a Frenchman, rather than ‘Kutúzov’. ‘And what about Lise, your wife?’ ‘She’s going into the country.’ ‘Shame on you, depriving us of your charming wife!’ ‘André!’said his wife, addressing her husband in the flirtatious tone that she normally reserved for other men. ‘The viscount has just told us a wonderful story about Mlle George and Bonaparte!’ Prince Andrey scowled and turned away. Pierre had been looking at this man with a joyful, affectionate gaze since the moment he walked in, and now he went over and took him by the arm. Before looking round, Prince Andrey gave a pained look of irritation as he felt the touch, but the moment he saw Pierre’s smiling face he smiled back in an unusually sweet and pleasant way. ‘It’s you! . . . Out in society!’ he said to Pierre. ‘I knew you’d be here,’ answered Pierre. ‘I’m coming to dine with you,’ he added in a low voice, so as not to interrupt the viscount, who was going on with his story. ‘Is that all right?’ ‘Of course it isn’t!’ laughed Prince Andrey, but his handshake told Pierre he had no need to ask. He was about to go on, but at that moment Prince Vasily and his daughter stood up and the two young men rose to let them go by. ‘Do excuse me, my dear Viscount,’said Prince Vasily to the Frenchman, gently tugging down on his sleeve to persuade him not to get up. ‘This confounded reception at the Ambassador’s deprives me of a pleasure and interrupts you. I’m so sorry to leave your delightful party,’ he said to Anna Pavlovna. Delicately holding on to the folds of her gown, his daughter, Princess Hélène, moved off between the chairs, and the smile on her gorgeous face was more radiant than ever. Pierre watched this vision of beauty go past, his eyes brimming with rapture and something not far from terror. ‘Isn’t she lovely?’said Prince Andrey. ‘Yes, she is,’said Pierre. As he went past, Prince Vasily took Pierre by the arm and turned to Anna Pavlovna. ‘Can you please train this bear for me?’ he said. ‘He’s been staying with me for a month and this is the first time I’ve seen him out in society. There’s nothing more important for a young man than the company of intelligent women.’ Anna Pavlovna gave a smile and promised to look after Pierre, knowing he was related to Prince Vasily on his father’s side. The elderly lady, who earlier on had been sitting by the aunt, got up hurriedly and overtook Prince Vasily in the hall. Her look of pretended interest had vanished, and her kindly, careworn face showed nothing but anxiety and alarm. ‘Prince, what can you tell me about my Boris?’she asked, catching up with him in the hall. (She put a peculiar stress on the ‘o’ in Boris.) ‘I can’t stay on in Petersburg. Tell me please, what news may I take to my poor boy?’ Although Prince Vasily’s reluctance to deal with the elderly lady verged on impoliteness, even impatience, she gave him a sweetly ingratiating smile, and stopped him from going by clutching at his arm. ‘It will cost you very little to put in a good word with the Emperor, and he’ll be transferred straight into the guards,’she implored. ‘Believe me, Princess, I’ll do anything I can,’ answered Prince Vasily; ‘but it’s not easy for me to petition the Emperor. I would advise you to see Rumyantsev, through Prince Golitsyn. That would be the more sensible thing to do.’ The elderly lady, Princess Drubetskoy, came from one of Russia’s best families, but she was impoverished, she had been too long out of society and by this time she had lost all her old contacts. She had come now to make representations and get her only son into the guards. For this reason alone – to see Prince Vasily – she had invited herself to Anna Pavlovna’s party, turned up and sat through the viscount’s story. She was shaken by the prince’s words; her face with its faded beauty flashed with resentment, but only for a moment. She smiled again and tightened her grip on Prince Vasily’s arm. ‘Please listen, Prince,’she said. ‘I’ve never asked you to do me a favour, and I never shall do so again. I’ve never reminded you how close my father was to you. But now, in God’s name I beseech you, just do this for my son, and I shall always think of you as a benefactor.’ Then, hurriedly, she added, ‘Please don’t be angry, but do promise. I’ve already asked Golitsyn, and he said no. Please be the nice gentleman you always used to be.’ She did her best to smile, though there were tears in her eyes. ‘Papa, we’re going to be late,’said Princess Hélène from the doorway, her exquisite head looking back over statuesque shoulders. But influence in society is capital, which must be carefully conserved so it doesn’t run out. Prince Vasily was aware of this, and, realizing that, if he were to petition for everybody who petitioned him, all too soon he would be unable to petition for himself, he rarely made use of his influence. In Princess Drubetskoy’s case, however, her new appeal had given him something akin to a qualm of conscience. She had reminded him of the truth: his earliest progress in the service had been due to her father. Beyond that, he could see from her actions that she was one of those women – especially mothers – who, once they get their teeth into something, are not going to let go until they get their own way, and if they don’t get their own way they are going to go on pestering every minute of every day, and they might even make a scene. This last consideration gave him pause. ‘My dear Anna Mikhaylovna,’ he said, as always unceremoniously and with boredom in his voice, ‘it is virtually impossible for me to do what you want, but to demonstrate my affection for you, and to honour your late father’s memory, I shall achieve the impossible. Your son will be transferred to the guards. Here is my hand on it. Does that satisfy you?’ ‘My dear Prince, you are our benefactor! I expected nothing less. I knew you were a good man.’ He tried to get away. ‘Wait a moment. Just one more thing. When he’s in the guards . . .’ She hesitated. ‘You are on good terms with General Kutuzov. Please recommend Boris as one of his aides. Then I can relax, then I . . .’ Prince Vasily smiled. ‘That’s something I can’t promise. You know how besieged Kutuzov has been since he became commander-in-chief. He told me himself that all the ladies in Moscow have got together to offer their children as aides.’ ‘No, you must promise. I won’t take no for an answer. You are such a good, kind benefactor . . .’ ‘Papa,’said the beautiful Hélène, exactly as before, ‘we’re going to be late.’ ‘Well, I must be off. I bid you goodbye. You see how things are.’ ‘Tomorrow, then, you will speak to the Emperor?’ ‘Yes indeed, but I can’t promise anything about Kutuzov.’ ‘Oh, Basile, you must,’ Anna Mikhaylovna called after him, smiling like a young flirt, which might have suited her in days gone by, but now ill became her scrawny face. She had obviously forgotten her age, and habit had told her to let go with all her ancient womanly wiles. But the moment he had gone her face resumed its former cold, affected expression. She went back to the group where the viscount was still holding forth, and again pretended to listen, but now that she had done what she had come to do she was only waiting for a suitable moment to go home. ‘And what about this latest farce of a coronation in Milan?’said Anna Pavlovna. ‘And that other farce in Genoa and Lucca with the people coming forward and presenting their petitions to Monsieur Buonaparte. Monsieur Buonaparte sits on a throne and grants nations their petitions! How very charming! Oh, it’s enough to drive me mad! The whole world seems to have gone off its head.’ Prince Andrey smiled and looked Anna Pavlovna straight in the face. ‘This crown is God-given. Woe betide the man who touches it,’ he said (Bonaparte’s words when the crown was placed on his head). ‘They say he looked superb as he spoke those words,’ he added, and he repeated the same words in Italian: ‘Dio mi la dona, guai a qui la tocca.’ ‘I only hope,’ Anna Pavlovna went on, ‘that at long last this is the straw that breaks the camel’s back. Really, the European sovereigns cannot continue to put up with this man. He is a threat to everything.’ ‘The sovereigns! I am not talking about Russia,’said the viscount, respectful but despairing . . . ‘But Madame, the sovereigns! What did they do for Louis XVI, the Queen, Madame Elisabeth? Nothing,’ he went on, gathering confidence. ‘And believe me, they’re being punished now for their betrayal of the Bourbon cause. The European sovereigns! They are sending ambassadors to congratulate the usurper.’ And he gave a scornful sigh as he shifted position. Then, at these words, Prince Hippolyte, who had been studying the viscount through his lorgnette, suddenly turned right round to face the little princess, borrowed a needle from her and used it to scratch an outline of the Condé family coat-of-arms on the tabletop. He began to explain it in some detail as if this was something she had asked for. ‘Staff, gules, engrailed with azure gules – the House of Condé,’ he said. The princess smiled as she listened. ‘If Bonaparte stays on the throne of France for another year,’said the viscount, taking up the thread of the conversation with the air of an informed person pursuing his own train of thought and ignoring everybody else, ‘things will have gone too far. After all the plotting and violence, the exiles and executions, society – I mean good, French society – will have been destroyed for ever, and then . . .’ He gave a shrug, and spread his hands. Pierre was about to say something – the conversation fascinated him – but the ever-vigilant Anna Pavlovna intervened. ‘Emperor Alexander,’she said with that doleful manner that she always adopted when referring to the royal family, ‘has announced that he will leave it to the French people to choose their own form of government. I myself have no doubt the entire nation, once it is delivered from the usurper, will rush to embrace its lawful king,’said Anna Pavlovna, trying to be nice to a royalist émigré. ‘That’s doubtful,’said Prince Andrey. ‘The viscount is right when he says things have gone too far. I think it will be difficult to turn the clock back.’ ‘From what I hear,’said Pierre, reddening as he got back into the conversation, ‘almost all the aristocrats have gone over to Bonaparte.’ ‘That’s what the Bonapartists say,’said the viscount without looking at Pierre. ‘It’s not easy nowadays to find out what public opinion is in France.’ ‘That’s what Bonaparte said,’ observed Prince Andrey with a grin. It was obvious that he didn’t like the viscount, and he was directing his remarks at him without looking his way. ‘ “I have shown them the path to glory, but they wouldn’t take it,” ’ he said after a brief pause, once more quoting Napoleon. ‘ “I have opened my antechambers to them, and the crowds rushed in . . .” I don’t know what justification he had for saying that.’ ‘None at all!’ retorted the viscount. ‘Since the duke’s murder, even his strongest supporters have ceased to regard him as a hero. There may be some people who made a hero of him,’said the viscount, turning to Anna Pavlovna, ‘but since the duke’s assassination there has been one more martyr in heaven, and one hero less on earth.’ Anna Pavlovna and the others had barely had time to smile in appreciation of the viscount’s words when Pierre broke into the conversation again, and although Anna Pavlovna knew in advance he was going to put his foot in it, this time she couldn’t stop him. ‘The execution of the Duke of Enghien,’said Pierre, ‘was a political necessity, and in my opinion it was a measure of Napoleon’s true greatness that he didn’t baulk at assuming total responsibility for it.’ ‘Merciful heaven!’ Anna Pavlovna intoned in a horrified whisper. ‘So Monsieur Pierre! You think murder is the measure of true greatness,’said the little princess, smiling and drawing in her work. Ohs and ahs came from all sides. ‘Capital!’said Prince Hippolyte, using the English word, and he began slapping his knee. The viscount merely shrugged. Pierre looked solemnly over his spectacles at his audience. ‘The reason I say this,’ he carried on in some despair, ‘is that the Bourbons were running away from the Revolution, leaving the people to anarchy, and Napoleon was the only one capable of understanding the Revolution, and transcending it, and that was why, for the public good, he couldn’t baulk at the taking of one man’s life.’ ‘Would you like to come over to this other table?’ asked Anna Pavlovna. But Pierre didn’t answer; he was in full flow. ‘Oh no,’ he said, warming to his task, ‘Napoleon is great because he towered above the Revolution, he stopped its excesses and he preserved all its benefits – equality, free speech, a free press. That was his only reason for assuming supreme power.’ ‘Yes, if only he had transferred it to the lawful king once he had obtained power, instead of using it to commit murder,’said the viscount, ‘then I might have called him a great man.’ ‘He couldn’t have done that. The people had given him power to get rid of the Bourbons, that was all, and also because they thought he was a great man. The Revolution was a splendid achievement,’ Monsieur Pierre insisted, his desperate and challenging pronouncement betraying extreme youth and a desire to blurt everything out at once. ‘Revolution and regicide are splendid achievements? . . . Well, whatever next? . . . Are you sure you wouldn’t like to come over to this table?’ repeated Anna Pavlovna. ‘Ah, the Social Contract,’ 10 said the viscount with a pinched smile. ‘I’m not talking about regicide. I’m talking about ideas.’ ‘Yes, ideas. Robbery, murder, regicide!’ an ironical voice put in. ‘These were the extremes, of course, but they weren’t the meaning of the whole Revolution. That was in human rights, freedom from prejudice, equality . . . Those were the strong ideas that Napoleon stood up for.’ ‘Liberty and equality,’said the viscount contemptuously. He seemed at last to have made up his mind to take this young man seriously and demonstrate how silly his outpourings had been. ‘Nothing but loud slogans, long compromised. Which of us does not love liberty and equality? Our Saviour himself preached liberty and equality. Have the people been any happier since the Revolution? Quite the reverse. We wanted liberty, but Bonaparte has destroyed it.’ Prince Andrey smiled at them all, Pierre, viscount and hostess. Just for a moment following Pierre’s outburst Anna Pavlovna had been taken aback, for all her social skills, but when she saw that the viscount was not greatly put out by Pierre’s sacrilegious way of speaking, and realized there was no stopping it, she rallied, came in on the viscount’s side and attacked the other speaker. ‘But my dear Monsieur Pierre,’she said, ‘how do you account for a great man being capable of executing a duke, a human being after all, who was innocent and untried?’ ‘What I should like to ask,’said the viscount, ‘is how Monsieur accounts for the 18th Brumaire? 11 That was very underhand, wasn’t it? It was a sneaky piece of work, nothing like a great man’s way of doing things.’ ‘And what about all those prisoners that he killed in Africa?’ 12 said the little princess. ‘That was horrible!’ And she gave a shrug. ‘He’s an upstart, whatever you say,’said Prince Hippolyte. Not knowing which one to answer, Monsieur Pierre surveyed them all with a smile. His smile was not like theirs – theirs were not real smiles. Whenever he smiled a sudden and immediate change came over his serious, perhaps rather gloomy face, and a very different face appeared, childish, good-natured, a bit on the silly side, half-apologetic. Noticing him for the first time, the viscount realized that this Jacobin 13 was much less formidable than the words he uttered. For a while no one spoke. ‘Is he supposed to answer everybody at once?’ asked Prince Andrey. ‘Anyway, in the actions of a statesman, you do have to distinguish between how he acts as a private person and what he does as a general or an emperor. That’s how it seems to me.’ ‘Yes, yes, of course,’ put in Pierre, delighted that someone had come in on his side. ‘You have to admit,’ pursued Prince Andrey, ‘that Napoleon on the bridge at Arcola was a great man, and also in the hospital at Jaffa when he shook hands with the plague-victims, 14 but . . . well, there are other actions it would be hard to justify.’ Prince Andrey, clearly intent on relieving Pierre’s embarrassment, now got up to go, signalling to his wife. All of a sudden Prince Hippolyte got to his feet and gestured for them all to stop and sit down again. Then he spoke. ‘Er, I heard a really good Moscow story today. I must tell you. Begging your pardon, Viscount, it will have to be in Russian, or you won’t get the point.’ And Prince Hippolyte began speaking in Russian, imitating the kind of speech that Frenchmen achieve after a year or so in Russia. Everyone stopped and paid attention, the prince having insisted so urgently that they should listen to his story. ‘Well there was this lady, une dame, in Moscow. Very stingy. She had to have two footmen behind her carriage. Very tall footmen. That was her taste. And she had a lady’s maid, also very tall. She said . . .’ He hesitated, obviously having trouble getting his story together. ‘She said . . . Yes, that’s it, she said, “You, girl,” (to the lady’s maid) “put your livery on and get up behind the carriage. We’re going out visiting.” At this point Prince Hippolyte snorted and laughed out loud, running well ahead of his listeners, which created a really bad impression of him as a storyteller. Still, there were plenty of people, including the elderly lady and Anna Pavlovna, who did manage a smile. ‘She drove off. Suddenly a strong wind blew up. The girl lost her hat, and her long hair was scattered about all over the place . . .’ Then, unable to contain himself any longer, he burst out laughing, and just managed to say through all the laughter, ‘And everybody got to know about it . . .’ And that’s all there was to the story. Nobody could understand why he had told it, or why he had insisted on telling it in Russian, and yet Anna Pavlovna and several other people appreciated the genteel diplomacy of Prince Hippolyte in so nicely putting an end to Monsieur Pierre’s unpleasant and intemperate outburst. After this story the conversation broke down into chitchat about the last ball and the next one, the theatre, and where and when who would meet whom. Thanking Anna Pavlovna for a delightful evening, the guests began to go home. Pierre was ungainly, stout, quite tall and possessed of huge red hands. It was said of him that he had no idea how to enter a drawing-room and was worse still at withdrawing from one, or saying something nice as he left. He was also absent-minded. He stood up now, picked up a general’s nicely plumed threecornered hat instead of his own, and held on to it, pulling at the feathers, until the general asked for it back. But all his absent-mindedness and his inability to enter a drawing-room or talk properly once inside it were redeemed by his expression of good-natured simplicity and modesty. Anna Pavlovna turned to him, forgiving his outburst with Christian humility, nodded and said, ‘I hope we shall see you again, but I also hope you will change your ideas, my dear Monsieur Pierre.’ She spoke, but he didn’t answer. All he did was bow and show everyone another of his smiles, a smile that simply said, ‘Never mind ideas, look what a nice, good-hearted fellow I am.’ And everyone, including Anna Pavlovna, couldn’t help but agree. Prince Andrey had gone out into the hall, and as he offered his shoulders to the servant ready with his cloak, he listened indifferently to his wife as she chattered with Prince Hippolyte, who had come along with her. Hippolyte stood close to the pregnant little princess who looked so pretty, and stared at her through his lorgnette. ‘Go back inside, Annette, you’ll catch cold,’said the little princess, taking leave of Anna Pavlovna. ‘It is settled, then,’she added quietly. Anna Pavlovna had managed to have a few words with Liza about the match she was setting up between Anatole and the little princess’s sister-in-law. ‘I’m relying on you, my dear,’said Anna Pavlovna, no less quietly. ‘Write to her and let me know how her father sees things. Au revoir!’ And she left the hall. Prince Hippolyte moved in on the little princess and, bending down with his face close to hers, started speaking to her in a half-whisper. Two servants, one the princess’s, the other his own, stood by with shawl and coat waiting for them to finish talking. The French was incomprehensible to them, but the servants’ faces suggested for all the world that they did understand what was being said, though they would never show it. The princess, as always, smiled as she talked and laughed when she listened. ‘I’m so glad I didn’t go to the Ambassador’s,’ Prince Hippolyte was saying. ‘Such a bore . . . This has been a delightful evening, hasn’t it? Delightful.’ ‘They say it will be a very fine ball,’ answered the little princess, drawing up her downy little lip. ‘All our pretty women will be there.’ ‘Not all of them. You won’t be there,’said Prince Hippolyte, with a happy laugh. He then snatched the shawl from the servant, shoving him out of the way, and began draping it around the little princess. Either from awkwardness or deliberately – no one could have said which – he kept his arms round her for some time after the shawl had been put on, seeming to clasp the young woman in his embrace. With good grace and still smiling, she wriggled free, turned and glanced at her husband. Prince Andrey’s eyes were closed: he seemed to be weary and drowsy. ‘Are you ready?’ he asked his wife, looking over her head. Prince Hippolyte hurried into his long coat. It was the last word in fashion, going right down to his heels, and he caught his foot in it as he ran out on to the steps after the princess. A servant was assisting her into the carriage. ‘Au revoir, Princess!’ he yelled, his tongue tripping over things just like his legs. The princess picked up her gown, and took her seat, settling back into the darkness of the carriage while her husband was arranging his sword. Prince Hippolyte pretended to help, but all he did was get in the way. ‘If you don’t mind, sir,’said Prince Andrey, curtly and pointedly in Russian, to Prince Hippolyte, who was standing in his way. ‘I’ll see you soon, Pierre,’said the same voice in warm and friendly tones. The coachman jerked forward, and the carriage rattled off. Prince Hippolyte honked with laughter, as he stood on the steps waiting for the viscount, having promised to drop him off at home. ‘Well, my dear fellow, your little princess is very nice, very nice,’said the viscount, as he got into the carriage with Hippolyte. ‘Very nice indeed.’ He kissed his fingertips. ‘And very French.’ Hippolyte snorted and laughed. ‘And, you know, you are awful with that innocent little way of yours,’ went on the viscount. ‘I pity the poor husband, that baby officer who fancies himself a prince regent.’ Hippolyte honked again, and said through his laughter, ‘And you told me that Russian ladies weren’t as good as French ladies. You just have to know how to get things going.’ Pierre arrived ahead of the others. Like one of the family he walked straight into Prince Andrey’s study, lay down on the sofa as he usually did, and took up the first book that came to hand (Caesar’s Commentaries). 15 Propped up on one elbow, he opened it in the middle and started to read. ‘What have you done to Mademoiselle Scherer? She’ll have the vapours,’said Prince Andrey, as he came into the study rubbing his small white hands. Pierre rolled his massive body so that the sofa creaked, looked at Prince Andrey with an eager smile, and gave an airy wave. ‘No, that abbé was very interesting, only he’s got things wrong . . . The way I see it, eternal peace is possible, but . . . oh, I don’t know how to put it . . . Well, not through the balance of power, anyway . . .’ Prince Andrey was obviously not interested in abstract talk like this. ‘My dear fellow, you can’t always come straight out with what you’re thinking. Come on, then. Have you made your mind up? Are you going to be a cavalryman or a diplomat?’ asked Prince Andrey, after a short pause. Pierre sat up on the sofa with his legs tucked under him. ‘You won’t find it hard to believe I still don’t know. I don’t fancy either of those jobs.’ ‘But you’ll have to decide, won’t you? Your father’s waiting.’ At the age of ten Pierre had been sent abroad with an abbé as his tutor, and there he had stayed till he was twenty. When he returned to Moscow, his father had dismissed the tutor and said to the young man, ‘Off you go to Petersburg, have a good look round, and decide for yourself. I’ll agree to anything. Here is a letter to Prince Vasily and here’s some money. Write and tell me everything. I’ll give you every assistance.’ Pierre had spent the last three months choosing a career and had done nothing. This was the decision that Prince Andrey was talking about. Pierre rubbed his forehead. ‘I’m sure he must be a freemason,’ 16 he said, thinking of the abbé he had seen at the party. ‘That’s all nonsense,’said Prince Andrey, stopping him in his tracks. ‘Let’s get down to business. Have you been to the horse guards?’ ‘No, I haven’t, but listen – I’ve had one idea I’d like to talk to you about. We’re at war with Napoleon. If we were fighting for freedom, I’d understand it, I’d be the first to enlist, but helping England and Austria against the greatest man in the world – that’s not right.’ Prince Andrey gave a shrug; it was all he could do in the face of such childish words from Pierre. His manner suggested there was no answer to such absurdities. And indeed it would have been hard to find any answer to this naive question other than the one he gave now. ‘If everybody fought for nothing but his own convictions, there wouldn’t be any wars,’ he said. ‘And a good thing too,’said Pierre. Prince Andrey grinned at him. ‘Yes it probably would be a good thing, but it won’t ever happen . . .’ ‘Well, why are you going to war?’ asked Pierre. ‘Why? I don’t know. Because I have to. I’m just going.’ He paused. ‘I’m going because the life I’m leading here, this life is . . . not to my taste!’ From the next room came the rustling of a woman’s dress. Prince Andrey jumped, as if he had just woken up, and his face resumed the expression it had worn in Anna Pavlovna’s drawing-room. Pierre lowered his legs from the sofa. In came the princess. She had changed into an informal dress every bit as fresh and elegant as the earlier one. Prince Andrey got to his feet and courteously pushed an easy-chair towards her. ‘I often wonder why it is,’she began, as always in French, speedily and fussily settling herself into the chair, ‘that Annette never married? You must be very foolish, all you men, not to have married her. Forgive me for saying so, but you really don’t know the first thing about women. And Monsieur Pierre, you really are a man for an argument!’ ‘I’ve just been arguing with your husband. I can’t imagine why he wants to go off to war,’said Pierre to the princess without any of the inhibitions which so often affect the attitude of a young man to a young woman. The princess reacted sharply – Pierre’s words had clearly touched a raw nerve. ‘That’s what I keep on saying,’she said. ‘I can’t understand it, I simply can’t understand why men can’t get by without war. Why is it we women don’t want anything to do with it, don’t need it? You can be the judge of this. I keep saying to him: here he is, one of uncle’s adjutants, a brilliant position to be in. Everybody knows him, everybody admires him. Only the other day at the Apraksins’ I heard one lady say, “Is that the famous Prince Andrey?” I swear it’s true!’ She laughed. ‘He gets invited everywhere. He could easily end up in the royal entourage. You know the Emperor has spoken very graciously to him. Annette and I were just saying how easy it would be to arrange. What do you think?’ One glance at Prince Andrey told Pierre his friend didn’t like this subject, so he said nothing. ‘When are you off?’ he asked. ‘Oh, please don’t talk to me about his going away, not that. I won’t have it spoken about,’said the princess in the same tone, all silly and playful, that she had used with Hippolyte at the party, quite out of place within the family circle – and Pierre was almost one of the family. ‘Today, when I suddenly thought of all these dear friendships that will have to be broken off . . . Besides, you know what, Andrey?’ She flashed a meaningful look at her husband. ‘I’m scared! I am scared!’she whispered, with a sudden shudder. Her husband glanced at her as if he was surprised to find someone else in the room other than himself and Pierre, but he questioned her with icy politeness. ‘What is it you’re scared of, Liza? I don’t understand,’ he said. ‘See how selfish men are, all of them. Every one of them selfish! Just because he fancies it, heaven knows why, he’s leaving me, shutting me away all on my own in the country.’ ‘With my father and my sister, don’t forget,’said Prince Andrey quietly. ‘I’ll still be on my own. My friends won’t be there . . . And he tells me not to be scared.’ Her tone was plaintive now, and her lip curled into a sneer, which made her look anything but happy, rather like a wild animal, squirrel-like and nasty. She said no more, as if it seemed wrong to talk about her pregnancy while Pierre was there, though that was what this was all about. ‘I still don’t understand what it is you’re scared of,’ Prince Andrey said deliberately, without taking his eyes off his wife. The princess blushed, and waved her hands in despair. ‘No, André, I tell you this: you’ve changed. You really have . . .’ ‘The doctor says you shouldn’t be late getting to bed,’said Prince Andrey. ‘You ought to get some sleep.’ The princess said nothing, but suddenly her tiny, downy lip began to tremble. Prince Andrey got to his feet, gave a shrug and started pacing up and down. Pierre glanced over his spectacles from one to the other in naive wonderment, squirming as if he too had meant to get up, but had thought better of it. ‘I don’t care if Monsieur Pierre is here,’said the little princess suddenly, her pretty face contorted into a tearful grimace. ‘I’ve been wanting to ask you, Andrey – why have you changed so much towards me? What have I done to you? You’re going off into the army, and you won’t listen. Why not?’ ‘Liza!’ Prince Andrey spoke only a single word, but it contained a request, a threat and – clearest of all – an assurance that she would live to regret these words. Nevertheless, she went on hurriedly to say, ‘You treat me like an invalid, or a child. I can see it all. You weren’t like this six months ago, were you?’ ‘Liza, I’m asking you to stop,’said Prince Andrey, more meaningfully still. Pierre had been growing more and more agitated during this conversation, and now he got to his feet and walked over to the princess. Clearly the sight of her weeping was too much for him, and he was on the point of tears himself. ‘Please don’t be so upset, Princess. I know how it seems to you . . . honestly, I’ve been through it myself . . . because . . . er, what I mean is . . . No, sorry, you don’t want other people . . . Oh, please don’t be so upset . . . I must go.’ Prince Andrey caught him by the arm and stopped him. ‘No, wait, Pierre. The princess is very kind. She wouldn’t want to deprive me of the pleasure of spending an evening with you.’ ‘No, he’s just thinking about himself,’ the princess declared, with no attempt to check her bitter tears. ‘Liza,’said Prince Andrey sharply, raising his voice to a level that declared his patience to be at an end. All at once the princess’s lovely little face changed its angry squirrel-like expression into a look of fear that made her seem both beautiful and sympathetic. She frowned and glared, directing her lovely eyes at her husband, but her face wore the timid, apologetic look of a dog wagging its drooping tail quickly but without much confidence. ‘Oh, good Lord!’ murmured the princess, and with one hand holding her gown she walked over to her husband and gave him a kiss on the forehead. ‘Goodnight, Liza,’said Prince Andrey, getting up to kiss her hand, politely, as if she was a stranger to him. The two friends were silent. Neither wished to start a conversation. Pierre kept looking across at Prince Andrey; Prince Andrey rubbed his forehead with a small hand. ‘Let’s go and have some supper,’ he said with a sigh as he got to his feet and went over to the door. They went into the elegant, newly decorated and richly appointed diningroom. Everything from the dinner napkins to the silver, the china and the glass, bore the special stamp of newness that exists in the households of recently married couples. Half-way through supper Prince Andrey leant on one elbow, and with the air of a man who has something on his mind and has suddenly decided to talk about it he assumed an expression of nervous irritability the like of which Pierre had never seen in his friend before, and began to speak. ‘Never, never get married, my dear fellow, that’s my advice to you. Don’t get married, not until you can say you’ve done everything possible, and until you have stopped loving your chosen woman, until you can see her clearly – otherwise you will be making a cruel mistake that cannot be put right. Marry when you’re old and good for nothing . . . Otherwise everything good and noble in you will be finished. It will all be frittered away over trifles. Yes, yes, yes! Don’t look so surprised. If you’re expecting some kind of future for yourself, you’ll feel every step of the way that everything is closed to you, blocked off, except the drawing-room, where you’ll operate on the same level as the court lackey and the fool. Oh, why bother?’ He made a vigorous gesture with his arm. Pierre took off his spectacles, which transformed his face, making it look even more benevolent, and gazed in amazement at his friend. ‘My wife,’ Prince Andrey went on, ‘is a splendid woman. She is one of those rare women with whom you feel your honour is secure, but, my God!, what wouldn’t I give now to be an unmarried man! You’re the first and only person I have said this to, because I’m close to you.’ As Prince Andrey said this he seemed less than ever like the earlier Bolkonsky who had sat sprawling in Anna Pavlovna’s drawing-room screwing up his eyes and forcing French phrases through his teeth. Now every muscle in his thin face was quivering with nervous excitement; his eyes, in which all the fire of life had seemed to have gone out, now shone with a radiant, vivid gleam. Clearly, the more lifeless he might seem at ordinary times, the more energetic he became when he was roused. ‘You don’t understand why I’m saying this,’ he went on. ‘Well, this is life itself. You talk about Bonaparte and his career,’ he said, though Pierre had not spoken about Bonaparte; ‘you talk about Bonaparte, but Bonaparte, when he was working his way step by step straight towards his goal, he was free, he had nothing but his goal to go for and he got there. But you tie yourself to a woman and you’ll lose all your freedom, like a convict in fetters. And all the hope and strength there is in you just drags you down and tortures you with regret. Drawing-rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, vacuous nonsense – that’s the vicious circle I’m stuck in. I’m off to the war, the greatest war there’s ever been, and I know nothing, I’m useless. I’m a nice fellow and I have a sharp tongue,’ he went on, ‘and at Anna Pavlovna’s people listen when I speak. And all these stupid people without whom my wife can’t exist, all these women . . . If you only knew what these fine women are, or let’s say women in general! My father’s right. Selfish, vain, stupid, totally vacuous – that’s what women are when they show themselves in their true colours. You see them out in society, you think there might be something there, but no, there’s nothing, nothing. Don’t get married, my dear fellow, just don’t!’ ‘It seems odd,’said Pierre, ‘that you, you consider yourself a failure and your life ruined. You’ve got your whole life in front of you, everything. And you . . .’ He did not say what about you, but his tone showed how much he admired his friend, and how much he was expecting from him in the future. ‘How can he talk like that?’ Pierre thought. He regarded Prince Andrey as a model of all the virtues, because he combined in the highest degree all the qualities he himself lacked – they were best summed up in a single concept: will power. Pierre always admired Prince Andrey’s ability to get on easily with all sorts of people, his remarkable memory, his wide reading (he had read everything, he knew everything and he could understand something about everything), and most of all his capacity for hard work and learning. If Pierre was sometimes struck by Andrey’s inability to dream dreams and philosophize (activities that Pierre was particularly prone to) he saw this not as a defect but as a positive quality. Even in the very warmest, friendliest and simplest of relationships you need either flattery or praise in the way that you need grease to keep wheels turning. ‘I’m yesterday’s man,’said Prince Andrey. ‘There’s no point in talking about me. Let’s talk about you,’ he said after a short pause, smiling at his own thoughts of consolation. His smile was instantly reflected on Pierre’s face. ‘Why, what is there to say about me?’said Pierre, his mouth broadening in an easy-going, happy smile. ‘What am I? I am a bastard.’ And he suddenly blushed to the roots of his hair. Clearly, it cost him a great effort to say this. ‘No name, no fortune . . . And really, when all’s said and done . . .’ But he didn’t say really what. ‘Anyway, I’m free for the time being and I’m doing all right. It’s just that I’ve no idea what to get going on. I wanted to talk things over with you seriously.’ Prince Andrey looked at him with kindly eyes. But as he looked, for all his friendliness and kindness he knew his own superiority. ‘I feel close to you because you’re the only living person in our social group. You’ll be all right. Choose anything; it won’t make any difference. You’ll always be all right, but there is one thing – stop knocking about with the Kuragins and leading their kind of life. It doesn’t suit you, all that riotous living, debauchery and all that stuff . . .’ ‘Can’t be helped, old man,’said Pierre with a shrug. ‘Women, my dear fellow, women.’ ‘I can’t see it,’ answered Andrey. ‘Decent women are all very well, but Kuragin’s women, women and wine . . . No, I just can’t see it!’ Pierre was staying at Prince Vasily Kuragin’s, and sharing in the dissipated lifestyle of his son Anatole, the young man whom they were proposing to marry off to Prince Andrey’s sister – in order to reform him. ‘You know what?’said Pierre, as though a happy thought had suddenly struck him. ‘Seriously, I’ve been thinking that for quite a while now. With this kind of life I can’t make any decisions, or think anything through. I’ve got a permanent headache and no money in my pocket. He’s invited me tonight, but I’m not going.’ ‘Promise me you won’t go.’ ‘I promise.’ It was past one o’clock when Pierre left his friend. On one of those limpid ‘white nights’ typical of Petersburg in June 17 Pierre got into a hired cab with every intention of going home. But the nearer he got, the more he realized it would be impossible to get to sleep on a night like this, when it was more like evening or morning. You could see right down the empty streets. On the way Pierre remembered that the old gambling school would be meeting at Anatole Kuragin’s that night, and it would usually lead on to a drinking session followed by one of Pierre’s favourite pastimes. ‘It would be nice to go to Kuragin’s,’ he thought, but then remembered he had promised Prince Andrey he wouldn’t go there again. But, as so often happens with people who might be described as spineless, he felt such a strong urge for one more shot at the old debauchery that he decided to go. And it suddenly occurred to him that his promise wasn’t valid anyway because he had already promised Prince Anatole that he would go before promising Andrey that he wouldn’t. Then he began to think that all promises like that were relative, they had no definite meaning, especially if you imagined that tomorrow you might be dead or something so strange might happen that there would be no difference between honesty and dishonesty. Pierre was very prone to this kind of speculation which destroyed all his resolutions and intentions. He went to Kuragin’s. He drove up to the front of a mansion near the horse guards’ barracks where Anatole lived, went up the well-lit steps and the staircase, and walked in through an open door. There was no one in the vestibule; empty bottles, cloaks and overshoes were scattered about everywhere. The place reeked of drink, and in the distance he could hear people talking and shouting. They had finished playing cards and supper was over, but the party had not broken up. Pierre threw off his cloak, and went into the first room, where there were some leftovers from supper, and a servant, thinking that no one could see him, was downing half-empty glasses on the side. From the third room came great roars of laughter, the sound of familiar voices shouting, and a bear growling. Eight or nine young men were jostling each other by an open window. Three others were playing with a bear-cub, one of them yanking at its chain and scaring the others with it. ‘A hundred on Stevens!’ cried one. ‘No holding on to the window!’shouted another. ‘My money’s on Dolokhov!’shouted a third. ‘You’re my witness, Kuragin.’ ‘Forget that bear. There’s a bet on here.’ ‘Down in one, or you’ve lost!’ cried a fourth. ‘Yakov. Bring us a bottle, Yakov!’shouted Anatole himself, a tall, handsome man, standing in his shirtsleeves in the middle of the group, his fine shirt-front unbuttoned down to mid-chest. ‘Hang on, gentlemen. Look who’s come – it’s old Pierre! Good man!’ He had turned towards Pierre. From the window a blue-eyed man of average height, conspicuously sober amidst the drunken uproar, called out clearly, ‘Come on over here. Sort out your bets!’ This was Dolokhov, an officer in the Semyonov regiment, a notorious gambler and swaggering madcap, at present living with Anatole. Pierre beamed at the company. ‘I don’t get it. What’s happening?’ ‘Hang on, he’s not drunk. Get him a bottle!’said Anatole. He took a glass from the table and walked over to Pierre. ‘First things first. Have a good drink.’ Pierre proceeded to down glass after glass, looking doubtfully at the drunken revellers, who were crowding round the window again, and listening to what they were saying. Anatole kept his glass topped up and told him that Dolokhov had made a bet with an English sailor by the name of Stevens, who was passing through, that he, Dolokhov, could drink a bottle of rum sitting on the third-floor window-sill with his legs dangling outside. ‘Come on, finish that bottle,’said Anatole, giving Pierre the last glass, ‘or I’m not letting you go!’ ‘No, I don’t want it,’said Pierre, shoving Anatole away, and he went over to the window. Dolokhov had a grip on the Englishman’s arm and he was meticulously explaining the terms of the bet, looking mainly at Anatole and Pierre. Dolokhov was a man of average height in his mid-twenties, with curly hair and bright blue eyes. Like all infantry officers he wore no moustache, so that his mouth, the most striking thing about him, was fully revealed. The lines of that mouth were very finely curved. The upper lip closed sharply down in the middle wedge-like over the firm lower one, and at the two corners the mouth always worked itself into something like a double smile. All of this, together with the decisive, brazen, shrewd look in his eyes, was so impressive that no one could fail to notice this face. Dolokhov was a man of few resources and no contacts. And yet somehow, despite the fact that Anatole doled out his money in tens of thousands, Dolokhov lived with him and managed to present himself in such a way that Anatole himself and everybody who knew them admired Dolokhov more than Anatole. Dolokhov gambled on everything, and usually won. However much he drank, he always kept a clear head. Both of them, Kuragin and Dolokhov, were currently infamous figures among the fast-and-loose young men of Petersburg. The bottle of rum was brought. Two servants, clearly flustered and intimidated by shouts and directions issuing from gentlemen on all sides, were in the process of removing the section of the window-frame that prevented anyone sitting on the outer sill. Anatole swaggered across to the window, eager to smash something. He shoved the servants out of the way and pulled at the frame, but it wouldn’t give. He broke one of the panes. ‘Come on, Hercules, you have a go,’ he said, turning to Pierre. Pierre grabbed hold of the cross-piece and heaved, broke the oak frame with a crash and wrenched it out. ‘Get the lot out, or they’ll think I’m holding on,’said Dolokhov. ‘The Englishman’s bragging, isn’t he? . . . Is everything all right?’said Anatole. ‘Yes,’said Pierre, watching Dolokhov go over to the window, bottle in hand. The light of the sky shone in with the merging of dusk and dawn. Dolokhov jumped up on to the window-sill, still holding his bottle. ‘Listen!’ he shouted, standing there and facing back into the room. Silence fell. ‘I bet you,’ (he spoke in French so the Englishman could understand what he was saying, and his French wasn’t too good) ‘I bet you fifty imperials . . . make it a hundred?’ he added, turning to the Englishman. ‘No, fifty,’said the Englishman. ‘All right, fifty it is – that I can drink a whole bottle of rum without taking it away from my lips. I’ll drink it sitting outside the window, there,’ (he bent down and pointed to the downward-sloping ledge on the outside) ‘without holding on to anything . . . Is that it?’ ‘Yes,’said the Englishman. Anatole turned to the sailor, took hold of a button on his coat and looked down at him (he was quite short), and went through the terms of the bet once again in English. ‘Hang on a minute!’shouted Dolokhov, calling for attention by banging the bottle on the window-sill. ‘Hang on, Kuragin. Listen: if anybody else can do it I’ll pay him a hundred imperials. All right?’ The sailor nodded with no indication of whether he accepted this new bet or not. Anatole hung on to him, and although the sailor nodded to say he fully understood, Anatole kept on translating Dolokhov’s words into English. A skinny young life guardsman, who had lost a lot that evening, climbed up on to the window-sill, stuck his head out and looked down. ‘Ugh!’ he said, staring down at the pavement. ‘Atten-shun!’ cried Dolokhov, yanking him back in, so that he tripped over his spurs and came tumbling down awkwardly into the room. Standing the bottle on the sill to keep it within easy reach, Dolokhov climbed slowly and deliberately out through the window and let his legs dangle down outside. Bracing himself with both hands against the sides of the frame, he settled himself, sat down, let go with his hands, shuffled slightly to the right, then to the left, and reached for the bottle. Anatole brought two candles, and put them on the window-ledge, even though it was quite light. Dolokhov’s back with his white shirt and his curly head were lit up from both sides. Everybody swarmed round the window, the English sailor at the front. Pierre smiled, and said nothing. One of the party, a bit older than the rest, suddenly pushed his way through with a scared and angry face, and tried to grab at Dolokhov’s shirt. ‘Gentlemen, this is crazy. He’ll get killed,’said this more sensible man. Anatole stopped him. ‘Don’t touch him. You’ll put him off, and then he will get killed. Eh? What about that?’ Dolokhov looked round, shifting his position, still supporting himself with both hands. ‘If anybody tries to get hold of me again,’ he said, forcing out his words one by one through tight thin lips, ‘I’ll chuck him down there . . . Right then!’ Whereupon he turned round again to face the outside, took his hands away, picked up the bottle and put it to his mouth, bent his head back and held his free hand up in the air to balance himself. One of the servants, who had begun clearing up the broken glass, stood transfixed in a stooping posture, his eyes glued on the window and Dolokhov’s back. Anatole stood erect, staring. The Englishman winced as he watched from one side. The man who had tried to stop it all had rushed across into a corner and now lay on the sofa facing the wall. Pierre covered his eyes, a feeble, forgotten smile lingered on his lips, and his face was now full of fear and horror. Nobody spoke. Pierre took his hands away from his eyes; there was Dolokhov still sitting in the same position, only his head was bent so far back that the curls on his neck touched his shirt collar, and the hand with the bottle rose higher and higher, trembling with the effort. The bottle was draining nicely, and went higher as it did so, bending the head further back. ‘Why is it taking so long?’ thought Pierre. More than half an hour seemed to have passed. Suddenly Dolokhov’s spine jerked back, and his arm trembled nervously, enough to shift his whole body as he sat on the sloping ledge. He slipped, and his arm and head shook even more violently as he struggled. One hand rose to clutch at the window-sill, but fell back again. Pierre shut his eyes again, and swore he would never open them. Then suddenly he was aware of things beginning to move round about him. He glanced up. There was Dolokhov standing on the window-ledge, his pale face full of delight. ‘All gone!’ He tossed the bottle to the Englishman, who caught it neatly. Dolokhov jumped down from the window stinking of rum. ‘Well done! Bravo! That’s a real bet! You’re a right devil, you are!’ came the shouts from all sides. The Englishman took out his purse and counted out the money. Dolokhov stood there frowning and silent. Pierre leapt up on to the window-sill. ‘Gentlemen! Anybody betting? I can do that!’ he shouted suddenly. ‘I don’t even need a bet. No, I don’t. Tell them to get me a bottle. I’ll do it . . . Just get me a bottle . . .’ ‘Go on! Let him do it!’said Dolokhov with a grin. ‘What, are you mad? No one will let you. You get dizzy walking downstairs,’ came the various protests. ‘I’ll drink it. Give me that bottle of rum,’ roared Pierre, thumping the table with a deliberate, drunken gesture, and he climbed up into the well of the window. People snatched at his arms, but he was so strong he sent them flying if they came anywhere near. ‘No, you’ll never talk him out of it like that,’said Anatole. ‘Hang on. I know how to fool him . . . Listen, Pierre, I accept your bet, but for tomorrow night. Right now we’re all going on to you know where.’ ‘Right, let’s go!’ yelled Pierre. ‘Let’s go! We can take Bruin with us . . .’ And he grabbed the bear, hugged it, lifted it right off the floor and took it waltzing round the room. Prince Vasily kept the promise he had made to Princess Drubetskoy at Anna Pavlovna’s soirée, when she had asked for his help with her only son, Boris. His case had been presented to the Emperor, and though it was not to be regarded as a precedent, he was transferred to the Semyonovsky guards regiment as an ensign. But Boris did not get the post of aide or attaché in Kutuzov’s service despite Anna Mikhaylovna’s best efforts and entreaties. Shortly after the evening at Anna Pavlovna’s, Anna Mikhaylovna returned to Moscow, and went straight to her rich relatives, the Rostovs, with whom she stayed when she was in Moscow. It was with this family that her dear little Boris, who had only recently entered a regiment of the line and was now transferring to the guards, had been brought up since childhood and had lived for many years. The guards had left Petersburg on the 10th of August, and her son, after staying behind in Moscow to get kitted out, was to catch up with them on the road to Radzivilov. The Rostovs were enjoying a name-day 18 celebration for both mother and younger daughter, their two Natalyas. Since early morning a constant stream of well-wishers in six-horse carriages had been driving to and from Countess Rostov’s mansion on Povarsky Street, which was famous throughout Moscow. The countess was sitting in the drawing-room with her lovely elder daughter receiving the many visitors who kept turning up one after another. A woman of about forty-five with a narrow, rather oriental face, the countess was clearly exhausted from bearing children – she had had twelve. Her slowness of movement and speech, deriving from physical weakness, lent her an air of importance which inspired respect. Princess Anna Mikhaylovna Drubetskoy, as a family member, sat with them assisting in the business of receiving and entertaining the guests. The youngsters were in the back rooms, not feeling obliged to play any part in receiving visitors. The count welcomed the visitors, saw them out and issued dinner invitations to every last one of them. ‘I really am most grateful to you, my dear,’ he said to every visitor, making no distinctions for persons of higher or lower social standing, ‘both for myself and my two dear name-day ladies. Do please come to dinner, or I shall be offended, my dear. I am inviting you most sincerely on behalf of all the family, my dear lady.’ These words, always accompanied by exactly the same expression on his round, cheery, clean-shaven face, and the same firm handshake and repeated short bows, were spoken to all without exception or variation. When he had seen one guest out the count would return to some gentleman or lady who was still in the drawing-room. Moving the chairs up, and adopting the manner of a man who knows about life and enjoys it, he would sit down, spread his legs out like a youngster, put his hands on his knees, and rock to and fro with some dignity as he indulged in a little weather-forecasting or dispensed advice about health, some of this in Russian, some of it in very bad but confident French. Then he would get up again, and with the air of a tired man still zealous in the call of duty, he would escort guests to the door, rearranging the grey strands over his bald patch, and again he would issue invitations to dinner. Sometimes on his way back from the vestibule, he would walk through the conservatory and the butler’s room and enter a great marble hall, where a table was being set for eighty guests. There he would inspect the waiters bringing in the silver and the china, setting out tables and unfolding damask linen for them; he would summon Dmitry, the young man of quality who acted as his steward and general assistant, and say to him, ‘Now then, Mitenka, make sure everything’s all right. Yes, yes, you will make sure, won’t you?’ Then he would take great pleasure in surveying the immense table opened out to its full extent, and add, ‘What matters – is the service . . . That’s the secret . . .’ And with a sigh of satisfaction off he went again in the direction of the drawing-room. ‘Madame Marya Karagin and her daughter!’ boomed the countess’s huge footman in his deep bass voice at the drawing-room door. The countess thought for a moment, and took a pinch of snuff from a gold snuff-box bearing her husband’s portrait. ‘I’m worn out with all these callers,’she said. ‘Well, this is the last one I’m seeing. Oh, she’s so affected. Show her in,’she said in a voice full of sadness, as though she were saying, ‘Go on, then, finish me off!’ Into the drawing-room, with skirts rustling, walked a tall, stout, grandiose lady and her round-faced, smiling daughter. ‘My dear Countess, it’s been such a long time . . . She’s been laid up, poor child . . . It was at the Razumovskys’ ball . . . and the Countess Apraksin . . . I was so glad . . .’ The women’s voices could be heard chattering away, interrupting each other and blending in with the sound of dresses rustling and chairs scraping. It was the kind of conversation calculated to last just long enough for the caller to get up at the first pause, skirts again rustling, murmur, ‘I’m so delighted . . . Mamma’s health . . . and the Countess Apraksin . . .’ and walk out again, still rustling, into the vestibule to don cloak or coat and drive away. The conversation dealt with the latest news in town: the illness of the wealthy old Count Bezukhov, who had cut such a dashing figure in Catherine’s time, 19 and his illegitimate son, Pierre, who had behaved so badly at one of Anna Pavlovna’s soirées. ‘I’m so sorry for the poor count,’said the visitor. ‘His health has been so poor, and now this nasty business with his son. It’ll be the death of him!’ ‘What’s all this?’ asked the countess, as if she had no idea what the lady was saying, though she had heard about the cause of Count Bezukhov’s distress at least fifteen times already. ‘This is what modern education does for you! When he was abroad,’ the visitor continued, ‘this young man was given a free rein, and now in Petersburg, so they say, he’s been doing such terrible things they’ve had to send him away under police guard.’ ‘You don’t say so!’said the countess. ‘He’s in with the wrong set,’ put in Princess Anna Mikhaylovna. ‘He and Prince Vasily’s son, and apparently another young man called Dolokhov, have . . . well, heaven knows what dreadful things they’ve been up to. And they’ve both paid the price. Dolokhov has been reduced to the ranks, and Bezukhov’s son has been banished to Moscow. Anatole Kuragin’s father has managed to hush things up for him. But he’s been sent away too.’ ‘Why, what did they do?’ asked the countess. ‘They’re absolute scoundrels, especially Dolokhov,’said the visitor. ‘He’s the son of Marya Dolokhov, such a respectable lady, you know, but there you are! Just imagine, the three of them somehow got hold of a bear, they put it in a carriage and went off with it to see some actresses. The police rushed in to stop them. They got a police officer, tied him back to back with the bear and dropped the bear into the Moika. The bear swam about with the policeman on his back.’ ‘That policeman, my dear, what a picture!’ cried the count, helpless with laughter. ‘Oh, how shocking! Count, this is no laughing matter.’ But the ladies couldn’t help laughing too. ‘They only just managed to save the wretched man,’ the visitor went on. ‘And that’s the clever sort of trick the son of Count Kirill Bezukhov gets up to!’she added. ‘And people said he was so well educated and clever. This is what foreign education has done for us. I hope no one will receive him here, in spite of his wealth. They tried to introduce him to me. I refused point-blank. I have daughters.’ ‘What makes you say this young man is so wealthy?’ asked the countess, turning away from the girls, who at once pretended not to be listening. ‘All his children are illegitimate. I believe Pierre is also . . . illegitimate.’ The visitor waved her hand. ‘He has a score of them, I believe.’ Princess Anna Mikhaylovna intervened, clearly wanting to demonstrate her contacts and her knowledge of society matters. ‘I’ll tell you what it’s all about,’ she said in a meaningful half-whisper. ‘Count Kirill’s reputation is something we all know. He’s lost count of how many children he has, but this Pierre has always been his favourite.’ ‘What a handsome man he was,’said the countess, ‘only a year ago! A betterlooking man I’ve never seen.’ ‘He’s very different now,’said Anna Mikhaylovna. ‘But what I wanted to say was this,’she went on. ‘On his wife’s side the direct heir to the whole estate is Prince Vasily, but the father is very fond of Pierre. He took trouble over his education, and he has written a letter to the Emperor . . . so if he dies (he’s in such a bad state that it’s expected any moment, and Lorrain has come down from Petersburg), nobody knows whether that huge fortune will go to Pierre or Prince Vasily. Forty thousand serfs and millions of roubles. I know it’s true – Prince Vasily has told me himself. And Kirill happens to be a third cousin of mine on my mother’s side. And he’s Boris’s godfather too,’she added, apparently attaching no significance to this circumstance. ‘Prince Vasily arrived in Moscow yesterday. Some sort of inspection, I was told,’said the visitor. ‘Yes, but just between the two of us,’said the princess, ‘that’s just an excuse. He’s really come to see Count Kirill, knowing he’s in such a bad way.’ ‘Well, really, my dear, that was a splendid bit of fun,’said the count, and noticing that the elder visitor was not listening, he turned to the young ladies. ‘That policeman. What a picture! I can just see him.’ And acting out the role of a policeman waving his arms, he boomed out his rich bass laughter, his whole body shaking with mirth, as people do after a good meal, and more so after a good drink. ‘Oh, please, you must come to dinner with us,’ he said. For a while nobody spoke. The countess was smiling pleasantly at her lady guest without disguising the fact that she would not be greatly put out if she were to get up and go. The visiting daughter was fidgeting with her gown and looking inquiringly at her mother when suddenly they all heard a racket from the next room as several boys and girls ran to the door, bumping into a chair and knocking it over with a bang, and a girl of thirteen dashed in with something tucked into her short muslin frock. She came to a halt in the middle of the room, evidently having misjudged everything, gone too far and burst in on them. And there behind her in the doorway stood a student with a crimson collar on his coat, a young guards officer, a fifteen-year-old girl and a fat little boy with rosy cheeks, dressed in a child’s smock. The count jumped up, swayed a little from one side to the other, held his arms out wide and put them right round the little girl who had run in. ‘Here she is!’ he cried, laughing. ‘A happy name-day, darling!’ ‘My dear child, there is a time for everything,’said the countess, pretending to be firm. ‘You do spoil that child, Ilya,’she added to her husband. ‘Good morning, my dear. Many happy returns,’said the visitor. ‘What a delightful child!’she added, turning to the mother. The dark-eyed young girl was not pretty – her mouth was too big – but she was full of life, and with her childish uncovered shoulders and her bodice slipping down from all that running, her curly black hair tossed back, her slender bare arms and little legs in lace-trimmed drawers and open slippers on her feet, she was at that charming age when the girl is no longer a child, and the child is not yet a young girl. She wriggled free from her father, ran across to her mother, ignoring her rebuke, hid her flushed face in her mother’s lace veil and laughed. She was laughing at nothing and she burbled something about her doll, pulling it out from the folds of her frock. ‘See? . . . Dolly . . . Mimi . . . You see?’ And Natasha found the whole thing irresistibly amusing. She fell upon her mother, and laughed and laughed, so loudly that everybody joined in, even the starchy visitor – they couldn’t help it. ‘Come on, off you go, you and your little monster!’said her mother, pushing her daughter away and pretending to be annoyed. ‘This is my younger daughter,’ she said to the visitor. Natasha, looked out from her mother’s lace veil for a minute, peeped up at her through tears of laughter, and buried her face again. The visiting lady, compelled to admire this domestic scene, felt obliged to take some part in it. She turned to Natasha and said, ‘Tell me, my dear – who is Mimi? Is she your baby?’ Natasha didn’t like this patronizing baby-talk from the visiting lady. She stared at her morosely and said nothing. By now all the younger generation – Boris, the officer, Anna Mikhaylovna’s son; Nikolay, the count’s eldest son, a student; Sonya, the count’s niece, fifteen years old; and little Petya, his younger son – had spread themselves across the drawing-room, and were all too obviously trying to contain within the bounds of decorum the excitement and glee which still showed in their features. Out there in the back rooms where they had been before they had come rushing in, the conversation had obviously been much more fun than the small-talk in here, nothing but scandal, the weather and Countess Apraksin. Once or twice they glanced at each another and could hardly contain their laughter. The two young men, student and officer, were the same age and had been friends since childhood. Both were good-looking, but in different ways. Boris was a tall, fair-haired youth with fine regular features, a handsome face and a look of composure. Nikolay was a small young man with a shock of hair and an innocent look. His upper lip showed the beginnings of a black moustache, and his whole face expressed energy and enthusiasm. He had blushed as he came into the room, clearly trying to think of something to say and not being able to do so. Boris, by contrast, was immediately at his ease; he talked fluently and amusingly about Mimi, the doll – he had known her as a young girl before her nose got broken, and my, how she had grown up during the five years he had known her, and by the way she had a great crack right across her skull. He said all this and then looked at Natasha. She turned away, glanced at her younger brother, who had screwed up his face and was shaking with suppressed laughter; no longer able to restrain herself, she leapt up and sprinted out of the room as fast as her little legs could go. Boris did not laugh. ‘Mama, weren’t you about to go too? Do you want the carriage?’ he asked, smiling at his mother. ‘Yes, do go and tell them to get it ready,’she said with a smile. Boris followed Natasha slowly out through the door. The fat little boy ran angrily after them, apparently annoyed that his busy life had been so rudely interrupted. The only youngsters left in the drawing-room – apart from the countess’s elder daughter, who was four years older than her sister and had assumed grown-up status, and also the young lady visitor – were Nikolay and Sonya, the niece. Sonya was a slim, petite brunette, with gentle eyes shaded by long lashes, a thick black braid of hair double-coiled round her head, with a sallow hue to her face and more so to her neck, and rather skinny bare arms that were sinewy but nicely shaped. There was a smoothness in the way she moved, a gentle suppleness in her little limbs and a kind of wary aloofness that suggested a pretty half-grown kitten that would one day turn into a lovely cat. She seemed to have thought it necessary to get involved in the general conversation if only by smiling, but now, in spite of herself, she found her eyes under their long thick lashes turning to her cousin, who was going off into the army. Her girlish passion bordering on adoration was so obvious that her smile didn’t fool anyone; it was clear that the kitten had crouched down only to pounce faster than ever on her cousin and tease him the moment they could get out of the drawing-room like Boris and Natasha. ‘Yes, my dear,’said the old count, addressing the visitor and pointing at Nikolay, ‘now that his friend Boris has got his commission, because of their friendship he doesn’t want to be left behind, so he’s giving up university and his poor old father. He’s going into the army, my dear. There was a place waiting for him in the Archives, and all that . . . But that’s friendship for you, isn’t it?’ ‘They do say war has been declared,’said the visitor. ‘They’ve been saying that for ages,’said the count. ‘They’ll say it again lots of times before they stop. But that’s friendship for you, my dear!’ he repeated. ‘He’s joining the hussars.’ The visitor shook her head, at a loss for words. ‘It’s nothing to do with friendship,’ Nikolay blustered, exploding as if this was a dreadful insult. ‘It’s not friendship – I just want to be in the army. It’s my vocation.’ He turned to look at his cousin and the young lady visitor; they returned his look with a smile of approval. ‘Colonel Schubert’s dining with us tonight. He’s with the Pavlograd hussars. Been here on leave, and he’s taking Nikolay back with him. Can’t be helped,’ said the count, shrugging his shoulders and making a joke out of something that had obviously caused him a lot of distress. ‘Papa, I’ve told you already,’said his son, ‘if you really don’t want me to go, I’ll stay. But I know I’m useless anywhere except in the army. I’m not a diplomat or a civil servant. I’m no good at hiding my feelings,’ he said, keeping the flirtatious eye of a handsome young man on Sonya and the young lady. The kitten, with her eyes glued on him, seemed likely at any second to pounce like a real cat and start teasing him. ‘Very well, then,’said the old count. ‘Such passion. It’s that man Bonaparte. He’s turned all their heads. They keep thinking about him rising from little corporal to Emperor. Well, God bless them . . .’ he added, not noticing the visitor’s smile of amusement. While their elders began talking about Bonaparte, Julie, Madame Karagin’s daughter, turned to young Rostov, and said, ‘I missed you at the Arkharovs on Thursday. It was very dull without you,’she said, giving him a sweet smile. Feeling flattered, he smiled his flirtatious young man’s smile and moved closer to her. With the equally smiling Julie he started a private conversation, blissfully unaware that his spontaneous smile had pierced a jealous Sonya to the heart; she was left with a forced smile on her blushing face. In mid-conversation he happened to glance at her. Sonya glared back venomously, got to her feet and left the room, scarcely holding back her tears, and still wearing that forced smile. Nikolay’s liveliness evaporated. He waited for the first break in the conversation, and went off to find Sonya, his face a picture of dismay. ‘Oh, these young people, they do wear their hearts on their sleeves!’said Anna Mikhaylovna, nodding after Nikolay’s retreating figure. ‘Cousins, cousins, troubles in dozens,’she added. ‘Yes,’said the countess, when the ray of sunshine that had come into the room with the young people had vanished, as if she was answering a question that no one had asked but was always on her mind. ‘How many trials and tribulations we have to go through in order to enjoy them as they are now! And even now, I’ll swear there’s more dread than enjoyment. You’re always, always afraid for them. Especially at this age when there are so many dangers both for girls and boys.’ ‘It all depends on how they were brought up,’said the visitor. ‘You’re quite right,’ the countess went on. ‘Up to now, thank God, I’ve been a good friend to my children and they trust me completely.’ The countess was repeating the delusion of so many parents, who imagine their children have no secrets from them. ‘I know my daughters will always turn to me as their first confidante, and I know that if Nikolay, with his impulsive nature, gets up to no good (boys will be boys) it won’t be anything like those young gentlemen in Petersburg.’ ‘Yes, they’re splendid children, splendid,’ agreed the count, who resolved all his thorny problems by finding everything splendid. ‘Just imagine! My son a hussar! Still, whatever you want, my dear.’ ‘Your younger girl is such a nice creature!’said the visitor. ‘What a fireball!’ ‘She’s a fireball, all right,’said the count. ‘Takes after me. And what a voice! I know she’s my daughter, but I’m telling you she’s going to be a singer, another Salomoni. 20 We’ve engaged an Italian to give her lessons.’ ‘Isn’t she too young? They say it damages the voice to train it at that age.’ ‘Too young? No, she isn’t,’said the count. ‘Don’t forget – our mothers used to get married at twelve or thirteen.’ ‘Well, she’s certainly in love – with your Boris! How about that?’said the countess, smiling gently and looking at Boris’s mother. Once again prompted by an idea that was constantly on her mind, she went on, ‘If I was too strict with her, you see, if I was to stop her . . . Heaven knows what they might get up to on the quiet,’ (she had in mind kissing) ‘whereas now I know every word she speaks. Tonight she’ll come to me and tell me everything. Perhaps I do spoil her a bit, but, well, I think it’s the best thing to do . . . I was strict with the eldest.’ ‘Yes. I was brought up quite differently,’said the girl in question, the radiant young Countess Vera, with a smile. But, unusually, it was a smile that did nothing for Vera’s face; on the contrary she looked unnatural, and therefore unpleasing. She, the elder daughter, was good-looking, quite intelligent, good at her lessons and well brought up; she had a nice voice and she talked good sense. But, it was odd – everybody there, including the visitor and the countess, looked at her in some surprise when she spoke and they were all embarrassed. ‘You’re always too clever by half with the first ones, trying to do something different,’said the visitor. ‘Our sins will out. My dear countess was a bit too clever with Vera,’said the count. ‘Never mind, she’s turned out splendid all the same,’ he added, with a wink of approval in Vera’s direction. The visitors got up and left, accepting the dinner invitation. ‘Dreadful manners. I thought they’d never go,’said the countess as she saw them off. When Natasha came rushing out of the drawing-room, she ran only as far as the conservatory, where she stopped and listened to them still talking in the drawingroom, and she waited for Boris to come out. She soon began to lose patience, stamping her little foot and almost bursting into tears when he didn’t come, but then she suddenly heard someone’s footsteps, not too relaxed, not too quick, the measured tread of a young man. Natasha nipped between two tubs of flowers and hid. Boris came to a halt and stood there in the middle of the room, glanced round, flicked a speck of dirt off the sleeve of his uniform and went over to the mirror to examine his handsome face. Natasha kept quiet and peeped out of her hidingplace, wondering what he was going to do. He stood there for a moment before the glass, smiled at himself and walked towards the opposite door. Natasha was just about to call him when she had second thoughts. ‘Let him look for me,’she said to herself. Boris had only just gone when in through the other door came Sonya, all red in the face and mouthing some angry words through her tears. Natasha stopped herself from running out to meet her, and stayed in hiding, as if she was magically invisible, to watch what was going on in the world. She was enjoying an exquisite new pleasure. Sonya was muttering something and glaring round at the drawing-room door. The door opened and out came Nikolay. ‘Sonya! What’s wrong with you? How could you?’said Nikolay, running up to her. ‘It’s nothing. Leave me alone!’ Sonya was sobbing. ‘No, I know what it is.’ ‘That’s all right then. Go back to her.’ ‘So-o-onya! Just let me speak! Can you really want to torture me – and yourself – over a silly bit of nonsense?’said Nikolay, taking her hand. Sonya left her hand where it was, and stopped crying. Natasha, holding her breath, as quiet as a mouse, looked out from her hidingplace with gleaming eyes. ‘What’s next?’she thought. ‘Oh, Sonya! You’re more than the whole world to me! You’re everything,’ said Nikolay. ‘I’ll prove it to you.’ ‘I don’t like it when you talk like that.’ ‘Well, I won’t then. Please forgive me, Sonya.’ He pulled her close and kissed her. ‘Oh, how nice!’ thought Natasha, and when Sonya and Nikolay had gone out of the room she followed them and called for Boris. ‘Boris, please come here,’she said with a sly, meaningful look. ‘I’ve got something to tell you. Here, here,’she said, and she led him into the conservatory, to the place where she had been hiding between the tubs. Boris followed, smiling. ‘What something?’ he inquired. She was embarrassed. She looked round, and when she saw the doll she had dropped on to a tub she picked it up. ‘Kiss my doll,’she said. Boris looked at her eager face, closely, tenderly, and said nothing. ‘You won’t? Well, come here then,’she said, plunging further in among the flowers, and she threw the doll away. ‘Closer, closer!’she whispered. She grabbed hold of the young officer’s cuffs, and her blushing face was a mixture of triumph and alarm. ‘Would you like to kiss me?’ Her whisper was barely audible, as she peeped up at him coyly, grinning and almost weeping with emotion. Boris went red in the face. ‘You are a funny girl’ he managed to say, bending down towards her, redder than ever, but without actually doing anything. He was waiting for the next move. Suddenly she skipped up on to a tub to make herself taller than Boris, flung her slender, bare arms right round his neck, and flicked her hair back with a toss of the head. Then she kissed him right on the lips. She slipped away between the plant-pots, went round behind the flowers and stood there with her head bowed. ‘Natasha,’ he said, ‘you know I love you, but . . .’ ‘Are you really in love with me?’ Natasha broke in. ‘Yes, of course I am, but, please, we mustn’t do that again . . . In four years’ time . . . Then I shall ask for your hand.’ Natasha thought things over. ‘Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,’she said, counting on her tiny little fingers. ‘Good. It’s all settled then?’ And her excited face radiated delight and relief. ‘Yes,’said Boris. ‘For ever?’said the little girl. ‘Till death us do part?’ And, taking his arm, with happiness written all over her face she walked quietly beside him into the next room
