WELL, prince, Genoa and Lucca are now nothing more than the apanages of the Bonaparte fam- ily. I warn you that if you do not tell me we are going to have war, if you still allow yourself to condone all the infamies, all the atrocities, of this Antichrist, on my word I believe he is Antichrist, I will not recognize you ; that is the end of our friendship ; you shall no longer be my faithful slave, as you call yourself. There now, cheer up, cheer up, I see I frighten you. sit down and tell me all about it. "- Come, Thus on a July evening in 1805 the well - known Anna Pavlovna Scherer, maid of honor and confidential friend of the Empress Maria Feodorovna, greeted the influ- ential statesman, Prince Vasili, who was the first to arrive at her reception. Anna Pavlovna had been coughing for several days ; she had the grippe, as she called it - grippe being then a new word used only by a few. Her notes of invitation, distributed that morning by a footman in red, had been written alike to all : - "Count ( or Prince ), if you have nothing better to do, and if the prospect of an evening with a poor invalid is not too frightful, I shall be very glad to see you to - night at my house between seven and ten. "Oh! what a cruel attack! "exclaimed the prince, as he came forward in his embroidered court uniform, stockings, and diamond - buckled shoes, and with an expression of serenity on his fleshy face : he was not in the least disturbed by this reception. He spoke that elegant French in which Russians formerly not only talked but also thought, and his voice was low and patronizing, as becomes a distinguished man who has spent a long life in society and at court. He went up to Anna Pavlovna, kissed her hand, bending down to it his perfumed and polished bald head, and then he seated himself comfortably on the divan. "First tell me how you are feeling ; calm your friend's anxiety, "said he, not altering the tone of his voice, which, in spite of the gallant and sympathetic nature of his remark, still betrayed indifference and even raillery. -- "How can one be well when one's moral sensi- bilities are so tormented? How in these days can any one with feelings remain calm? "exclaimed Anna Pav- lovna. "You will spend the evening with me, I hope? ""But the English ambassador's reception? To - day is Wednesday. I must show myself there, "said the prince. "My daughter is coming for me, to take me there. ""I thought that reception had been postponed. I confess all these fêtes and fireworks are beginning to grow tiresome! ""If they had known that you had wished it, they would have postponed the reception, "said the prince, from habit, like a watch wound up, saying things which he did not expect to be believed. "Don't tease me! Well, what has been decided in regard to Novosiltsof's despatch? You know every- thing. """How can I tell you, "said the prince, in a cold tone of annoyance, "what has been decided? It has been decided that Bonaparte has burnt his ships, and I be lieve that we are ready to burn ours. "Prince Vasili always spoke indolently, like an actor rehearsing an old part. Anna Pavlovna, on the con- trary, in spite of her forty years, was full of vivacity and impulses. Her character of an enthusiast had given her a pe- culiar position, and sometimes, even when it was con- trary to her inclinations, she worked herself up to enthusiasm, so as not to disappoint the expectations of her acquaintances. The suppressed smile constantly playing over her face, although incongruous with her faded features, expressed, just as in the case of spoiled children, the ever present consciousness of her ami- able weakness, which she could not and would not correct, and which she did not think it necessary to correct. In the midst of their conversation about political matters Anna Pavlovna grew heated, "Oh! don't speak to me about Austria. Perhaps I do not know anything about it, but Austria has never wished for war, and she does not now. She is betraying us. Russia alone must be the savior of Europe. Our benefactor realizes his lofty mission, and will be faithful to it. That is one thing in which I have a firm belief. The grandest part in the world lies before our kind and splendid sovereign, and he is so benevolent and good that God will not abandon him, and he will fulfil his mission of crushing the hydra of revolution, which is now more monstrous than ever, in the face of this mur- derer and scoundrel. We alone must redeem the blood of the just... On whom can we rely, I ask you?.... England with her commercial spirit does not understand and cannot at all conceive the Emperor Alexander's lofti- ness of soul. She has refused to evacuate Malta. She is anxious to find, she is seeking for, some secret motive in our actions. What did they say to Novosiltsof? Nothing! They do not and they cannot understand the self - denial of our emperor, who wishes nothing for his own gain, but everything for the good of the world. And what have they promised? Nothing! Even what they have promised will not be performed. Prussia has already declared that Bonaparte is invincible, and that all Europe is powerless before him...... And I have not the slightest faith in Hardenberg or in Haugwitz. This famous Prussian neutrality is only a snare. believe in God alone, and in the high destiny of our beloved emperor. He will save Europe! ".... I She suddenly paused, with a smile of amusement at her own impetuosity. "I think, "said the prince, smiling, "that if you had been sent instead of our dear Wintzengerode, you would have taken the king of Prussia's consent by storm. You are so eloquent! Will you give me some tea? ""Directly. A propos, "she added, becoming calm once more, "this evening two very interesting men will be here : the Vicomte de Montemart, connected with the Montmorencys through the Rohans, one of the best names in France. He is one of the decent emigrants of the genuine sort. And then the Abbé Morio ; do you know that profound mind? He has been received by the sovereign. Do you know him? ""Ah! I shall be most happy, "said the prince. "But tell me, "he went on to say, as if something just at that moment for the first time occurred to him, whereas in reality the matter regarding which he was asking this question was the chief object of his visit, "is it true that the empress dowager wishes Baron Funke to be named as first secretary at Vienna? It seems to me that this baron is a wretched creature. "Prince Vasíli was anxious for his son to get the appointment to this place, which a party was trying to secure for the baron through the influence of the Em- press Maria Feodorovna. Anna Pavlovna almost closed her eyes, to signify that neither she nor any one else could tell what would satisfy or please the empress. Baron Funke was recommended to the empress dowager by her sister, "said she in a dry, melancholy tone. Whenever Anna Pavlovna spoke of the empress, her face suddenly assumed a deep and genuine expres- sion of devotion and deference tinged with melancholy, and this was characteristic of her at all times when she was reminded of her august patroness. She said that her majesty had been pleased to show Baron Funke her good - will, and again her face became melancholy. The prince said nothing and looked indifferent. Anna Pavlovna, with feminine quickness and a courtly dexterity characteristic of her, was desirous of giving the prince a rap because he had dared to speak in dispraise of a per- son recommended to the empress, and at the same time she wished to console him. "But speaking of your family, "she added, "do you know that your daughter, since she came out, has roused the enthusiasm of our best society. She is considered to be as lovely as the day. "The prince bowed in token of his respect and gratitude. "I often think, "pursued Anna Pavlovna, after a moment's silence, drawing a little closer to the prince and giving him a flattering smile, as if to imply that nothing more was to be said about politics and society, but that now they might have a confidential chat : "I often think how unfairly good things of life are dis- tributed. Why should fate have given you two such splendid children ( I don't count Anatol, your youngest, I don't like him, "she said decisively, in way of paren- thesis, and raising her brows ), two such lovely chil- dren? And really you do not prize them as much as others do, and therefore you do not deserve them. "And she smiled her enthusiastic smile. ""Que voulez - vous? Lavater would have said that I lack the bump of philoprogenitiveness, "said the prince. "Now stop joking. I wanted to have a serious talk with you. You must know, I am out of patience with your youngest son. Between you and me ( here her face assumed its melancholy expression ), they have been talking about him at her majesty's, and they feel sorry for you. "The prince made no reply, but she paused and looked at him significantly while waiting for his answer. Prince Vasili frowned. "What do you wish me to do! "he exclaimed at last. "You know I have done everything for their education that a father can do, and both have turned out imbeciles. Ippolit is at least only an inoffensive idiot, but Anatol is a nuisance. There is that difference between them, "said he, with a smile more natural and animated than usual, and at the same time very distinctly displaying an unexpectedly coarse and disagreeable expression in the wrinkles around his mouth. "And why is it that such men as you have children? If you were not a father, I should not be able to find fault with you about anything, "said Anna Pavlovna, lifting her eyes pensively. "I am your faithful slave, and I can confess it to you alone. My children are the stumbling - blocks of my existence. This is my cross. That is the way that I explain it to myself. Que voulez - vous? "— He paused, expressing with a gesture his submission to his cruel fate. Anna Pavlovna was lost in thought. "Has it never occurred to you to find a wife for your prodigal son? They say old maids have a mania for match - making ; I am not as yet conscious of this weak- ness, but I know a young girl who is very unhappy with her father : she is a relative of ours, Princess Bolkonskaya. ' Prince Vasíli made no reply, but the motion of his head showed that, with the swiftness of calculation and memory characteristic of men of the world, he was tak- ing her suggestion into consideration. 66 Did you know that this Anatol costs me forty thou- sand a year? "said he, evidently unable to restrain the painful current of his thoughts. He hesitated : "What will it be five years hence, if it goes at this rate? That is the advantage of being a father. Is she rich, this princess of yours? ""Her father is very rich and stingy. He lives in the country. You know, he is that famous Prince Bolkonsky, who retired during the lifetime of the late emperor. He was nicknamed ' The King of Prussia. ' He is a man of genius, but full of whims, and á trial. The poor little girl is as unhappy as she can be. She has a brother who recently married Lise Meinen. He is on Kutuzof's staff. He will be here this evening. ""Listen, my dear Annette, "said the prince, suddenly taking his companion's hand and bending it down for some reason. "Arrange this business for me, and I will be your faithfullest slave forever and ever. is of good family and rich - that is all I require. "She And with that easy and natural grace for which he was distinguished, he raised her hand, kissed it, and having kissed it, still retained it in his, while he settled back in his arm - chair and looked to one side. "Just wait! "said Anna Pavlovna, after a moment of consideration. "I will speak about it this evening to Lise ( young Bolkonsky's wife ), and perhaps it can be arranged. I shall begin my old maid's apprentice- ship in your family. "ANNA PAVLOVNA's drawing - room gradually began to be filled. The highest aristocracy of Petersburg came ; people most widely differing in age and in character, but alike in that they all belonged to the same class of society. Prince Vasíli's daughter, the beautiful Ellen, came, in order to go with her father to the ambassador's reception. She was in ball toilet and wore the imperial decoration. There came also the little, young Princess Bolkonskaya, known as the most fascinating woman in Petersburg. She had been married during the winter before, and now, owing to her expectations, had ceased to appear at large entertainments, but still went to small receptions. Prince Ippolit, Prince Vasíli's son, came with Montemart, whom he was introducing to society. The Abbé Morio and many others also came. 66 Have you seen my aunt yet? "or "Do you know my aunt? asked Anna Pavlovna of her guests, as they came in, and with perfect seriousness she would lead them up to a little old lady wearing tremendous bows, who had sailed out from the next room the moment the guests began to arrive, and she presented them by name, deliberately looking from guest to aunt, and then going back to her place again. All the guests had to go through the formality of an introduction to this superfluous and uninteresting aunt, whom no one knew or cared to know. Anna Pavlovna, with a melancholy, solemn expression of sympathetic approval, silently listened to their exchange of for- malities. "Ma tante "spoke to all newcomers in precisely the same terms about their health, her own health, and the health of her majesty, "which was better to - day, thank God. "All those who fell into her clutches, though from politeness they showed no undue haste, made their escape with the consciousness of relief at having accom- plished a disagreeable duty, and took pains not to stay near the old lady or to come into her vicinity again during the evening. Her The young Princess Bolkonskaya came, bringing some work in a gold - embroidered velvet bag. pretty little upper lip, just shaded by an almost imper- ceptible down, was rather short, but all the more fasci- nating when it displayed her teeth, and more fascinating still when she drew it down a little and closed it against the under lip. As is always the case with perfectly charming women, her defect of a short lip and a half- open mouth seemed like a distinction, her peculiar beauty. It was a delight for all to look at this beautiful young woman so full of health and life, and so gracious with the promise of coming motherhood. Old men and surly young men, soured before their time, as they looked at her seemed to become like her, after being in her presence and talking with her for a little time. Whoever spoke with her and saw her bright smile, and her shining white teeth displayed at every word, was sure to go away with the impression that he had been unusually agreeable that day. And every one felt the same. The young princess, with her workbag in her hand, waddling along with short quick steps, passed around the table, and joyously disposing her dress, sat down on the divan near the silver samovár, as if all that she did was a delight for herself and all around her. "I have brought my work, "she said, opening her reticule, and addressing the whole company. "Now see here, Annette, don't play a naughty trick on me, "she went on to say, turning to the hostess. "You wrote me that it was to be a little informal soirée ; see how unsuitably I am dressed! "And she spread out her arms so as to display her elegant gray gown trimmed with lace and belted high with a wide ribbon. "Do not be disturbed, Lise, "replied Anna Pavlovna, "you will always be the most beautiful of all. ""You know my husband is deserting me, "continued the young princess, still in French, and addressing a general, "He is going to meet his death. Tell me, why this wretched war? "she added, this time speaking to Prince Vasíli ; and without waiting for his rejoinder, she had some remark to make to Prince Vasíli's daugh- ter, the handsome Ellen. "What a charming creature that little princess is! ' whispered Prince Vasíli to Anna Pavlovna. Shortly after the young princess's arrival, a huge, stout young man came in. His head was close cropped, he had on eyeglasses, and wore stylish light trousers, an immense frill, and a cinnamon - colored coat. This stout young man was the illegitimate son of Count Bezukhoï, a famous grandee of Catherine's time, and now lying at the point of death in Moscow. He had not as yet. entered any branch of the service, having just returned from abroad, where he had been educated, and this was his first appearance in society. Anna Pavlovna welcomed him with a nod reserved for men of the very least importance in the hierarchy of her salon. But notwithstanding this greeting, almost con- temptuous in its way, Anna Pavlovna's face, as Pierre came toward her, expressed anxiety and dismay such as one experiences at the sight of anything too huge and out of place. Pierre was indeed rather taller than any one else in the room, but the princess's dismay may have been caused only by the young man's intelligent, and at the same time diffident, glance, so honest and keen that it distinguished him from every one else in the room. "It is very kind of you, Monsieur Pierre, to come and see a poor invalid, "said Anna Pavlovna, looking up in alarm from her aunt, to whom she was conducting him. Pierre blurted out some incoherent reply, and con- tinued to let his eyes wander around the assembly. He smiled with pleasure as he bowed to the little princess as if she were an intimate friend, and went on toward the aunt. Anna Pavlovna's alarm was justified, for Pierre, with- out waiting for the old lady to finish her discourse about her majesty's health, left her abruptly. Anna Pavlovna in dismay detained him with the words, "Don't you know the Abbé Morio? "she asked, "he is a very interesting man. ""Yes, I have heard of his plan for a perpetual peace, and it is very interesting, but hardly feasible. ""Do you think so? "said Anna Pavlovna, for the sake of saying something, and once more returning to her duties as hostess ; but Pierre was now guilty of an incivility of an opposite nature. Before, he had left a lady without allowing her to finish speaking ; now he insisted on detaining his companion to hear what he had to say, though she wished to leave him. Bending his head down, and standing with his long legs spread apart, he began to show Anna Pavlovna why he conceived that the abbe's plan was chimerical. "We will talk about that by and by, "said Anna Pavlovna, with a smile. And having turned away from this young man who had such bad manners, she once more devoted herself to her duties as hostess, and continued to listen and look on, ready to lend her aid wherever conversation was beginning to flag. Just as the proprietor of a cotton mill, who has stationed his workmen at their places, walks up and down on his tour of inspection, and when he notices any spindle that has stopped, or that makes an unusually loud or creaking noise, hastens to it, and checks it or sets it going in its proper rote, even so Anna Pavlovna, as she walked up and down her drawing - room, came to some group that was silent, or that was talking too excitedly, and by a single word or a slight transposition, set the talking machine in regular decorous running order again. But while she was occupied with these labors, it could be seen that she was in especial dread of Pierre. She watched him anxiously while he went to listen to what was said in the circle around Montemart, and then joined another group, where the abbé was discoursing. Pierre had been educated abroad, and this reception at Anna Pavlovna's was his first introduction to society in Russia. He knew that all the intellect of Petersburg was gathered here, and like a child in a toy - show, he kept his eyes open. He was all the time afraid of missing some clever conversation that might interest him. As he saw the assured and refined expressions on the faces of those gathered here, he was ever on the lookout for something especially intellectual. He had finally come to where Morio was. The con- versation seemed to him interesting, and he stood there waiting a chance to air his opinions, as young men are fond of doing. ANNA PAVLOVNA's reception was in full swing. The spindles on all sides were buzzing smoothly and without halt. Not counting Ma Tante, near whom sat only one elderly lady with a thin tear - worn face, a poor soul rather out of place in this brilliant society, the guests were divided into three circles. The Abbé Morio formed the center of one, for the most part composed of men ; in the second, mainly young folks, were that beauty, the Princess Ellen, Prince Vasíli's daughter, and the pretty little Princess Bolkonskaya, fair and rosy, but too stout for her age. In the third were Montemart and Anna Pavlovna. The viscount was an attractive - looking young man, with delicate features and refined manners. He evi- dently regarded himself as a celebrity, but through his good breeding modestly allowed the company with which he mingled to profit by his presence. Anna Pavlovna was evidently serving him up as a treat for her guests, just as a good maître d'hôtel offers as a supernaturally delicious dish some piece of meat which no one would feel like eating were it seen in the un- savory kitchen ; so this evening Anna Pavlovna served up to her guests first the viscount, then the abbé, as some sort of supernatural delicacy. In Montemart's circle they had immediately begun to discuss the murder of the Duc d'Enghien. The viscount maintained that the duke had fallen a victim to his own magnanimity, and that there had been personal reasons for Bonaparte's ill - will. "Ah! there now, tell us about it, viscount, "said Anna Pavlovna, eagerly, with a consciousness that this phrase "tell us about it, viscount, "sounded à la Louis XV. The viscount bowed in token of submission, and smiled urbanely. Anna Pavlovna made her circle close in around the viscount, and invited all to hear his account. "The viscount knew the duke personally, "whispered Anna Pavlovna to one of her guests. "The viscount is a wonderfully clever story - teller, "she said to another ; "How easy it is to tell a man used to good society, "she exclaimed to a third ; and the viscount was offered to the company in a halo most exquisite and flattering to himself, like roast beef garnished with parsley on a hot platter. The viscount was anxious to begin his narration, and smiled faintly. "Come over here, chère Hélène, "said Anna Pavlovna, to the lovely young princess, who was seated at some little distance, the centre of the second group. The Princess Ellen smiled ; she stood up with that unchanging smile with which she first came into the room - the smile of a perfectly beautiful woman. With the rustle of her white ball dress, ornamented with smilax and moss, with shoulders gleaming white, with glossy hair and flashing gems, she made her way through the ranks of men who stood aside to let her pass, and not looking at any one in particular, but smiling on all, and as it were, amiably granting each one the privilege of admiring the beauty of her form, of her plump shoul- ders, of her beautiful bosom and back, exposed by the low cut of dresses then in vogue, seeming to personify the radiance of festivity, she crossed straight over to Anna Pavlovna. Ellen was so lovely that not only there was not a shade of coquetry to be perceived in her, but on the contrary, she was, as it were, conscience - stricken at her indubitable and all - conquering maidenly beauty. She seemed to have the will but not the power to diminish the effect of her loveliness. "What a beautiful girl! "was remarked by all who saw her. The viscount, as if overwhelmed by something extraor- dinary, shrugged his shoulders and dropped his eyes as she took her seat in front of him and turned upon him the radiance of that perpetual smile. "Madame, I fear that my ability is not on a par with such an audience, "said he, inclining his head with a smile. The young princess rested her bare round arm on the table, and did not think she needed to say anything in reply. She smiled and waited. All the time that he was telling his story she sat upright, glancing occasion- ally now at her beautiful plump arm, which by its press- ure on the table altered its shape, now at her still more beautiful bosom, on which she adjusted her diamond necklace ; once or twice she smoothed out the folds of her dress ; and when the story was particularly impressive, she would look at Anna Pavlovna and for an instant assume the very same expression of face as her hostess, and then again resume her calm, radiant smile. The little Princess Bolkonskaya had also left the tea- table and followed Ellen. "Wait a moment, I am going to bring my work! "she had exclaimed. "Why are you in a brown study? "she added, addressing Prince Ippolit― "bring me my workbag! "The princess, smiling, and having a word for every one, had quickly effected her transmigration, and as she took her seat, merrily arranged herself. "Now I am comfortable, "she had exclaimed, and begging the viscount to begin, had devoted herself to her work again. Prince Ippolit had brought her the bag and, placing his chair near her, sat down. The charming Hippolyte struck one by his extraor- dinary likeness to his sister, the beautiful Ellen, and still more by the fact that in spite of this likeness he was astonishingly ugly. His features were the same as his sister's, but in her case all was illumined by her radiantly joyous, self - contented, unfailing smile of life and youth, and the remarkable classic beauty of her form. In the case of the brother, on the contrary, the same face was befogged with an idiotic look, and inva- riably gave the impression of a self - conceited and pee- vish disposition, and his body was lean and feeble. Eyes, nose, mouth, all were fixed, as it were, in a vague and querulous grimace, while his arms and legs always assumed some unnatural attitude. "It is not a ghost story, is it? "he had asked, as he sat down near the princess and hastily put on his eye- glass, as if without this instrument it were impossible for him to say a word. "Why no, my dear, "replied the astonished narrator, shrugging his shoulders. "Because I detest ghost stories, "he added, and it was plain from his tone that only after he had spoken these words he realized what they meant. The self - assurance with which he spoke made it diffi- cult for any one to tell whether his remark was very witty or very stupid. He wore a dark green coat, pantaloons of a shade which he called cuisse de nymphe effrayée, and stockings and pumps. The viscount gave a very clever rendering of an anec- dote at that time going the rounds, to the effect that the Duc d'Enghien had gone secretly to Paris to see Mlle. George, and there met Bonaparte, who also en- joyed the favors of the famous actress ; and that Napo- leon on meeting the duke there happened to fall into one of the epileptic fits to which he was subject, and thus came into the duke's power, but the duke refrained from taking advantage of it, while Bonaparte revenged himself for such magnanimity by compassing the duke's death. The story was very nice and interesting, especially at the place where the rivals suddenly recognize each other, and the ladies, it appeared, were moved. 66 Charming! "exclaimed Anna Pavlovna, looking in- terrogatively at the little princess. "Charming, "whispered the little princess, looking for her needle in her work, as if to signify that the in- terest and fascination of the story had prevented her from going on with her sewing. The viscount was flattered by this mute tribute of praise, and with a gratified smile was about to continue ; but at this instant Anna Pavlovna, who had kept her eye constantly on the young man who seemed to her so dan- gerous, noticed that he and the abbé were talking alto- gether too loud and energetically, and she hastened to carry aid to the imperilled place. In reality Pierre had succeeded in leading the abbé into a conversation on political equipoise ; and the abbé, evidently interested by the young man's frank impetu- osity, was giving him the full benefit of his pet idea. Both were talking and listening with too much natural ardor, and this was displeasing to Anna Pavlovna. "How can it be done? - the balance of Europe and the right of nations, "the abbé was saying. "It is pos- sible for one powerful empire like Russia, having the repute of being barbarous, to take her stand disinter- estedly at the head of an alliance which should have for its aim the balance of Europe- and she would save the world! ""How would you bring about such a balance of power? "Pierre was beginning to ask ; but just at this instant Anna Pavlovna joined them, and, giving Pierre a stern glance, asked the Italian how he bore the cli- mate of Petersburg. The Italian's face instantly changed and took on an offensively, affectedly soft expression, which was evi- dently habitual with him when he engaged in conversa- tion with women. "I am so enchanted by the charms of the wit and culture, especially among the women of the society into which I have the honor of being received, that I have not as yet had time to think of the climate, "said he. Anna Pavlovna, not allowing Pierre and the abbé to escape from her, brought them into the general circle, so that she might keep them under her observation. At this moment, a new personage appeared in the drawing - room. This new personage was the young Prince Andrer Bolkonsky, the husband of the little princess. Prince Bolkonsky was a very handsome young man of medium height, with strongly marked and stern features. Everything about him, from the dull and weary expression of his eyes to the measured deliberation of his step, presented a striking contrast with his little lively wife. He was not only acquainted, it seemed, with every one in the room, but found them so tedious that even to look at them and hear their voices was a great bore to him. Of all the faces there which he found so tiresome, the face of his lovely little wife was apparently the one that bored him the most. With a grimace which disfigured his handsome face, he turned away from her. He kissed Anna Pavlovna's hand, and with half - closed eyes looked round at the assembly. "So you are getting ready for war, prince? "asked Anna Pavlovna. "General Kutuzóf has been kind enough to desire me as his aide - de - camp. "He spoke in French and like a Frenchman accented the last syllable of Kutúzof's name. "And Liza, your wife? ""She will go into the country. ""Isn't it a sin for you to deprive us of your charming wife? """' André, "exclaimed the little princess, addressing her husband in the same coquettish tone that she em- ployed toward strangers, "such a fascinating story the viscount has been telling us about Mlle. George and Bonaparte! "Prince Andrer frowned and turned away. Pierre, who from the moment when Prince Andreï entered the room had not taken his merry kindly eyes from him, now came up and took him by the arm. Prince Andreï, without looking round, again contracted his face into a grimace expressing his annoyance that any one should touch his arm, but when he saw Pierre's smiling face, he smiled with an unexpectedly kind and pleasant smile. "What is this! - you also in gay society? "said he to Pierre. "I knew that you would be here, "replied Pierre. "I will go home to supper with you, "he added in a whisper, so as not to disturb the viscount, who was proceeding with his story ; "may I? ""No, it's impossible! "said Prince Andreï, laughing, and by a pressure of the hand giving Pierre to under- stand that he had no need of asking such a question. He had something more on his tongue's end, but at this moment, Prince Vasíli and his daughter arose and the two young men stood aside to give them room to pass. "You will excuse me, my dear viscount, "said Prince Vasíli to the Frenchman, courteously pulling him down by the sleeve to make him keep his seat ; "this un- fortunate reception at the embassy deprives me of a pleasure, and compels us to interrupt you — I am very sorry to leave your delightful reception, "said he to Anna Pavlovna. His daughter, the Princess Ellen, gracefully holding the folds of her dress, made her way among the chairs, and the smile on her lovely face was more radiant than ever. Pierre looked with almost startled, enthusiastic eyes at the beauty as she passed by him. "Very handsome, "said Prince Andreï. "Very, "said Pierre. As he went by, Prince Vasíli seized Pierre by the hand and turned to Anna Pavlovna. "Train this bear for me, "said he. "Here he has been living a month at my house, and this is the first time that I have seen him in society. Nothing is so advantageous for a young man as the society of clever women. ANNA PAVLOVNA smiled and promised to look out for Pierre, who was, as she knew, on his father's side re- lated to Prince Vasíli. The elderly lady who had been sitting near Ma Tante jumped up hastily and followed Prince Vasíli into the entry. Her face lost all its former pretence of interest. Her kind, tear - worn face expressed only anxiety and alarm. "What can you tell me, prince, about my Bóris, "she said, as she followed him ( she pronounced the name Borís with the accent on the first syllable ) ; "I cannot stay any longer in Petersburg. Tell me what tidings I can take to my poor boy. "Although Prince Vasíli's manner in listening to the old lady was reluctant and almost uncivil, and even showed impatience, still she gave him a flattering and affectionate smile and took his arm to keep him from going. "What would it cost you to say a word to the em- peror and then he would be at once admitted to the Guards! "she added. "Be assured that I will do all I can, princess, "re- plied Prince Vasíli ; "but it is hard for me to ask his majesty ; I should advise you to appeal to Rumyantsof through Prince Galitsuin. That would be wiser. ' ""The elderly lady was the Princess Drubetskaya, and belonged to one of the best families in Russia, but she was poor, had long been out of society, and had lost her former connections. She had now come to town in order to secure the admittance of her only son into the Imperial Guards. Merely for the sake of meeting Prince Vasíli, she had accepted Anna Pavlovna's invi- tation and come to the reception ; merely for this she had listened to the viscount's story. She was dismayed at Prince Vasíli's words ; her once handsome face ex- pressed vexation, but this lasted only an instant. She smiled once more and clasped Prince Vasíli's arm more firmly. "Listen, prince, "said she, "I have never asked any- thing of you, and I never shall ask anything of you again and I have never reminded you of the friendship that my father had for you. But now I beg of you, in God's name, do this for my son and I will look upon you as our benefactor, "she added hastily. "No, don't be angry, but promise me this. I have asked Galitsuin, he refused. Be kind as you used to be! "she said, trying to smile, though the tears were in her eyes. ""Papa, we shall be late, "said the Princess Ellen, turning her lovely head on her classic shoulders as she stood waiting at the door. Now influence in society is a capital which has to be economized lest it be exhausted. Prince Vasíli under- stood this, and having once come to the conclusion that if he asked favors for everybody that applied to him, it would soon be idle to ask anything for himself, he rarely exerted his influence. The Princess Drubet- skaya's last appeal, however, caused him to feel some- thing like a pang of conscience. She reminded him of the fact that he owed to her father his first advance- ment in his career. Moreover he saw by her manner that she was one of those women, notably mothers, who having once got a notion into their heads do not desist until their desires are gratified, and in case they fail are ready every day, every moment, with fresh urgen- cies, and even scenes. This last consideration turned the scale with him. "Chère Anna Mikhailovna, "said he, with his usual familiarity and with ill humor in his voice ; "it is al- most impossible for me to do what you wish ; but in order to show you how fond I am of you, and how much I honor your father's memory, I will do the impossible ; your son shall be admitted to the Guards, here is my hand on it. Are you satisfied? "― "My dear, you are our benefactor. I expected nothing less from you- I knew how kind you were. "— He started to go. "Wait, two words more - when once he is admitted, "she hesitated. "You and Mikhaïl Ilarionovitch Kutuzof are good friends, do recommend Bóris to him as aide - de - camp. Then I should be con- tent, and then — "- Prince Vasili smiled. "That I will not promise. You have no idea how Kutuzof has been besieged since he was appointed com- mander - in - chief. He himself told me that all the ladies of Moscow had offered him all their sons as adjutants. ""No, promise me ; I will not let you go, my dear friend, my benefactor, """Papa, "again insisted the beautiful Ellen, in the same tone, we shall be late. "66 "Well, au revoir, good - by. Do you see? ""Then to - morrow you will speak to the Emperor? ""Without fail, but I cannot promise about Kutuzof. ""No, but promise, promise, Basile, "insisted Anna Mikhailovna, with a coquettish smile, which perhaps in days long gone by might have been becoming to her, but now ill suited her haggard face. She evidently for- got her age, and through habit put her confidence in her former feminine resources. But as soon as he was gone, her face again assumed the same expression as before, of pretended cool complacency. She returned to the group where the viscount was still telling stories, and again she made believe listen, though she was anx- iously waiting for the time to go, now that her purpose was accomplished. "But what do you think of all this last comedy du sacre de Milan? "asked Anna Pavlovna, "and the new comedy of the people of Genoa and Lucca coming to offer their homage to Monsieur Bonaparte sitting on a throne and accepting the homage of nations. Oh, this is delicious! No, it is enough to make one beside one's self. You would think the whole world had gone mad. "Prince Andrer looked straight into her face and smiled. "God has given me this crown ; beware of touching it, ', ' "he said, quoting Bonaparte's words at his corona- tion. "They say he was very handsome as he pro- nounced these words, "he added, and he repeated them in Italian : "Dio mi la dona, guai a chi la tocca. ""I hope, "pursued Anna Pavlovna, "that this will at last be the drop too much. The sovereigns cannot longer endure this man who imperils everything. "66 "The sovereigns? I do not mean Russia, "said the viscount, politely, but in a tone of despair : "The sovereigns, madame? What have they done for Louis XVIII., for the Queen, for Madame Elizabeth? Nothing! "he added, becoming animated. And, be- lieve me, they are suffering their punishment for having betrayed the cause of the Bourbons. The sovereigns? They are sending ambassadors to compliment the usurper! "And with an exclamation of contempt, he again changed his position. Prince Ippolit, who had been long contemplating the viscount through his lorgnette, suddenly at these words turned completely round to the little princess, and ask- ing her for a needle proceeded to show her what the escutcheon of Condé was, scratching it with the needle on the table. He explained this coat - of - arms for her benefit, with a consequential air, as if the princess had asked him to do it for her. "Bâton de gueules engrêlé de gueules d'azur the house of Condé, "he said. The princess listened with a smile. "If Bonaparte remains a year longer on the throne of France, things will have gone quite too far, "said the viscount, still pursuing the same line of conversation, like a man who, without listening to others, and con- sidering himself the best informed on any subject, insists on following the lead of his own thoughts. By intrigue, violence, proscriptions and capital punishment, society, I mean good society, French society, will be utterly destroyed, and then 99 He shrugged his shoulders and spread open his hands. Pierre was about to put in a word, the conversation in- terested him, but Anna Pavlovna, who was watching him, broke in : "The Emperor Alexander, "said she, with the melan- choly which always accompanied any reference of hers to the imperial family, "has declared that he will leave it to the French themselves to choose their own form of government. And I think that there is no doubt that the whole nation, when once freed from the usurper, will throw itself into the arms of its rightful king, "said Anna Pavlovna, striving to be gracious to the émigré and Royalist. "That is doubtful, "said Prince Andreï. "The vis- count is perfectly right when he remarks that things have already gone too far. I think it will be difficult to return to the old. ""I have recently heard, "remarked Pierre, with a flushed face, again venturing to take part in the conver- sation, "that almost all the nobility have gone over to Bonaparte. ""That is what the Bonapartists say, "replied the vis- count, not looking at Pierre. "It is hard nowadays to know what the public opinion of France really is. """Bonaparte said so, "said Prince Andreï, with a sneer. It was evident that the viscount did not please him, and also that the viscount, without especially addressing him, directed all his remarks at him. "I have showed them the path of glory, ' "he went on, after a moment's silence, again quoting Napo- leon's words, "and they would not enter it ; I opened my antechambers to them, and they rushed in in throngs, ' I know not how far he was justified in say- ing that. ""Not at all, "said the viscount ; "after the murder of the duke, even the most partial ceased to look on him as a hero. Even if he was a hero for certain people, "con- tinued the viscount, addressing Anna Pavlovna, "since the assassination of the duke there is one martyr more in heaven, one hero less on earth. "Anna Pavlovna and the others had not time to reward the viscount with a smile of approval for his words, be- fore Pierre again rushed into the conversation, and Anna Pavlovna, though she had a presentiment that he would say something indecorous, was unable this time to restrain him. "The punishment of the Duc d'Enghien, "said Mon- sieur Pierre, "was an imperial necessity, and I for one regard it as magnanimous of Napoleon not to hesitate to assume the sole responsibility of this act. ""Dieu! mon Dieu! "exclaimed Anna Pavlovna, in a whisper of dismay. "What, Monsieur Pierre! you see magnanimity in assassination? "exclaimed the little princess, smiling and moving her work nearer to her. "Ah!.... Oh! "said different voices. 66 Capital, "said Prince Ippolit, in English, and he began to slap his knee with his hand. The viscount merely shrugged his shoulders. Pierre looked triumphantly at the company over his spectacles. "I say this, "he went on to explain, in a sort of desper- ation, "because the Bourbons fled from the Revolution, leaving their people a prey to anarchy. And Napoleon was the only man able to understand the Revolution, to conquer it, and consequently, for the sake of the general good he could not hesitate, before the life of an indi- vidual. ""Don't you want to come over to this table? "sug- gested Anna Pavlovna. But Pierre, without heeding her, went on with his dis- course. 66 "No, "said he, growing more and more excited, Napoleon is great because he stands superior to the Revolution, because he has crushed out its abuses, pre- serving all that was good - the equality of citizens, and freedom of speech and of the press, and only thus he gained power. ""Yes, if, when he gained the power, instead of using it for assassination, he had restored it to the legitimate king, "said the viscount, "then I should have called him a great man. ""But he could not do that. The power was granted him by the people, solely that he might deliver them from the Bourbons, and because they saw that he was a great man. The Revolution was a mighty fact, "con- tinued Monseiur Pierre, betraying by this desperate and forced proposition, his extreme youth, and his propensity to speak out whatever was in his mind. "Revolution and regicide mighty facts!.... After this.... but will you not come over to this table? "insisted Anna Pavlovna. "Contrat social, "suggested the viscount, with a benig- nant smile. "I am not talking about regicide, I am talking about ideas. ""Yes, ideas of pillage, murder, and regicide, "sug- gested an ironical voice. "Those are the extremes, of course, and the real significance is not in such things, but in the rights of man, in emancipation from prejudices, in equality of the citizens, and all these principles Napoleon has pre- served in all their integrity. ""Liberty and equality! "exclaimed the viscount, scornfully, as if he had at last made up his mind seri- ously to prove to this young man all the foolishness. of his arguments. "All high - sounding words, which long ago were shown to be dangerous. Who does not love liberty and equality? Our Saviour himself preached liberty and equality. But after the Revolu- tion were men any happier? On the contrary! We wanted freedom, and Bonaparte has destroyed it. "Prince Andreï with a smile looked now at Pierre, now at the viscount, and now at the hostess. During the first instant of Pierre's outbreak, Anna Pavlovna was appalled, notwithstanding her experience in soci- ety ; but when she saw that Pierre's sacrilegious utter- ances did not make the viscount lose his temper, and when she became convinced that it was impossible to check them, she collected her forces, and taking the viscount's side, she attacked the young orator. "Mais, mon cher Monsieur Pierre, "said Anna Pav- lovna, "how can you call a man great who can put to death a duke, simply a man, when you come to analyze it, without trial and without cause? """I should like to ask, "said the viscount, "how mon- sieur explains the Eighteenth Brumaire. Was it not a fraud? It was a piece of trickery wholly unlike what a great man could have done. ",, "And the prisoners in Africa, whom he killed? ' suggested the little princess. "That was horrible! "and she shrugged her shoulders. "He is a low fellow, whatever you may say. "Monsieur Pierre did not know which one to answer ; he looked at them all and smiled. His smile was un- like other men's, falsely compounded of seriousness. Whenever a smile came on his face, then suddenly, like a flash, all the serious and even stern expression van- ished, and in its place came another, genial, frank, and like that of a child asking forgiveness. The viscount, who had never seen this young Jacobin before, recognized clearly that he was not nearly as terrible as his words. All were silent. "How can you expect him to answer all of you at once? "said Prince Andreï. "Besides, in the actions of a statesman, one must distinguish those of a private individual, a general, or an emperor. So it seems to me. ' "Yes, yes, of course, "put in Pierre, delighted at this ratification of his ideas. 66 ' It is impossible not to acknowledge, "pursued Prince Andreï, "that Napoleon was great as a man on the bridge at Arcola, or in the hospital at Jaffa, when he shook hands with the plague - stricken soldiers, but but there are other actions of his which are hard to justify. "Prince Andreï, who had evidently been desirous of smoothing over the clumsiness of Pierre's remark, got up, with the intention of leaving, and giving his wife the hint. Suddenly, Prince Ippolit arose, and with a gesture of his hand detaining the company, and begging them to be seated, he went on to say : 66 ' Oh, I was told to - day such a charming Russian story. I must give you the benefit of it. You will excuse me, viscount, I must tell it in Russian. Other- wise, the flavor of the story will be lost. "And Prince Ippolit began to speak in Russian, with much the same fluency as Frenchmen who have spent a year in Russia usually attain. All stopped to listen, because Prince Ippolit had been so strenuously urgent in attracting their attention to his story. "In Moscow there is a lady, une dame, and she is very miserly. She has to have two footmen behind her carriage. And very tall ones. That was her hobby. And she had a chambermaid, who was also very tall. She said "Here Prince Ippolit paused to think, evidently at a loss to collect his wits. "She said, yes, she said, ' Girl ( à la femme de chambre ), put on a livery and go with me, behind the carriage, and make some calls. ' "Here Prince Ippolit snickered and laughed long before his hearers and their silence produced a very disheartening effect upon the narrator. However, a few, including the elderly lady and Anna Pavlovna, smiled. "She drove off. Suddenly a strong wind blew up. The girl lost her hat and her long hair came down. "Here he could not hold in any longer, but through his bursts of broken laughter he managed to say these words, - "And every one knew about it. "That was the end of the anecdote. Although it was incomprehensible why he told it, and why he felt called on to tell it in Russian rather than French, still Anna Pavlovna and the others appreciated Prince Ippolit's cleverness in so agreeably putting an end to Monsieur Pierre's disagreeable and stupid freak. The company, after the anecdote, broke up into little groups, busily engaged in insignificant small talk about some ball that had been or some ball that was to be, or the theatre, or when and where they should meet again. CONGRATULATING Anna Pavlovna on what they called her charming soirée, the guests began to take their departure. Pierre, as we have already said, was awkward. Stout, of more than the average height, broad - shouldered, with huge red hands, he had no idea of the proper way to enter a drawing - room, and still less the proper way of making his exit ; in other words he did not know how to make some especially agreeable remark to his hostess before taking his leave. Moreover, he was absent - minded. He got up, and instead of taking his own hat he seized the plumed three - cornered hat of some general, and held it, pulling at the feathers until the general came and asked him to surrender it. But all his absent - mindedness and clumsiness about entering a drawing - room, and about suitable subjects of conversa- tion, were redeemed by his expression of genuine good- ness, simplicity, and modesty. Anna Pavlovna turned to him, and with Christian sweetness expressing her forgiveness for his behavior, nodded to him, and said, "I hope I shall see you again, but I hope also that you will change your opinions, my dear Monsieur Pierre, "said she. He could find no words to answer her ; he only bowed, and let every one again see his smile, which really said. nothing, except this : "Opinions are opinions, and you can see what a good and noble young man I am. "And all, Anna Pavlovna included, could not help feeling this. Prince Andreï went into the anteroom, allowed the lackey to throw his mantle over his shoulders, and with cool indifference listened to the chatter of his wife and Prince Ippolit, who had also come into the anteroom. Prince Ippolit stood near the pretty little princess, and stared straight at her through his lorgnette. "Go back, Annette, you will take cold, "said the little princess, by way of farewell to Anna Pavlovna. all understood, "she added, in an undertone. "It is Anna Pavlovna had already had a chance to speak a word with Liza in regard to the suggested match be- tween Anatol and the little princess's sister - in - law. "I shall depend upon you, my dear, "said Anna Pavlovna, also in an undertone. You write to her and tell me how her father will look at it. Au revoir. "And she went back from the anteroom. Prince Ippolit came to the little princess, and bending his face down close to her began to talk to her in a half- whisper. Two lackeys, one the princess's, holding her shawl, the other Prince Ippolit's, with his overcoat, stood wait- ing until they should finish talking, and listened to their chatter, which being in French was incomprehensible ; but their faces seemed to say, "We understand, but we do not care to show it. "The princess, as always, smiled as she spoke, and listened, laughing gayly. "I am very glad that I did not go to the ambas- sador's, "said Prince Ippolit, "a bore - we've had a lovely evening, haven't we, lovely. ""They say it will be a very fine ball, "replied the princess, curling her downy lip. "All the pretty women in society will be there. ""Not all, because you are not there, certainly not all, "said Prince Ippolit, gayly laughing ; and taking the shawl from the servant he even pushed him away and began to wrap it round the princess. Either through awkwardness or intentionally ( no one could tell which ), it was a long time before he took his arms away from her even after the shawl was well wrapped round her, and he seemed to be embracing the young woman. Gracefully, and still smiling, she drew back a little, turned around and glanced at her husband. Prince An- drer's eyes were closed ; he seemed so tired and sleepy! "Are you ready? "he asked, glancing at his wife. Prince Ippolit hastily put on his overcoat, which being in the latest style came below his heels, and stumbling along in it rushed to the steps after the princess, whom the lackey was assisting into the carriage. "Princess, au revoir, "he cried, his tongue as badly entangled as his feet. The princess, gathering up her dress, took her seat in the darkness of the carriage ; her husband was arrang- ing his sword ; Prince Ippolit, in his efforts to be of assistance, was in everybody's way. "Excuse me, sir, "said Prince Andrer in Russian, in a cold, disagreeable tone, addressing Prince Ippolit, who stood in his way. "I shall expect you, Pierre, "said the same voice, but warmly and affectionately. The postilion whipped up the horses and the carriage rolled noisily away. Prince Ippolit laughed nervously, as he stood on the steps, waiting for the viscount, whom he had promised to take home. "Well, my dear fellow, your little princess is charm- ing, very charming, "said the viscount, as he took his seat in the carriage with Ippolit, "yes indeed, she's charming. "He kissed the tips of his fingers. "And really quite Frenchy. "Ippolit roared with laughter. "And do you know, you are terrible with your little innocent ways, "continued the viscount. "I pity the poor husband, that little officer who puts on the airs of a reigning prince. "Ippolit again went off into a burst of laughter, through which he managed to articulate : - "And yet you said that the Russian ladies were not anywhere equal to the French ladies! One must know how to manage them. "Pierre, being the first to reach the house, went into Prince Andrer's own room, like one thoroughly at home, and immediately stretching himself out on the divan, as his habit was, took up the first book that he found on the shelf it was Cæsar's Commentaries and leaning on his elbow began to read in the middle of the volume. "What have you been doing to Mlle. Scherer? She will be quite laid up now, "said Prince Andreï, coming into the room and rubbing his small white hands together. Pierre turned over with his whole body, making the divan creak, looked up at Prince Andreï with an eager face, smiled and waved his hand. "No, "said he, "that abbé is very interesting, only he does not understand the matter aright..... In my opinion, permanent peace is possible, but I cannot tell how.... certainly not through political equilibrium. "Prince Andreï was evidently not interested in these abstract questions. "It is not good form, my dear fellow, always and everywhere to say what you think. But have you come to any final decision yet as to your career? Will you be a horse - guardsman or a diplomat? "asked Prince Andreï, after a moment's silence. Pierre sat up on the divan, doubling his legs under him. "You can imagine, I have not as yet the slightest idea. Neither the one nor the other pleases me. ""But see here, you must come to some decision. Your father is waiting. "Pierre at the age of ten had been sent abroad, with an abbé for a tutor, and had remained there till he was twenty. On his return to Moscow, his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man : "Now go to Petersburg, look about, and take your choice. I give my consent to anything. Here is a letter to Prince Vasíli, and here is money for you. Write me about everything, and I will help you in any way. ' ""Pierre had been trying for three months to choose a career, and had not succeeded. It was in regard to this choice that Prince Andreï spoke. Pierre rubbed his forehead. "But he must be a Freemason, "said he, referring to the abbé whom he had met that evening. "That is all nonsense, "said Prince Andreï, again stopping him short ; "let us talk about your affairs. Have you been to the Horse Guards? ""No, not yet, but here is an idea that occurred to me and I wanted to tell you ; now there is war against Napoleon. If it had been a war for freedom, I should have taken part, I should have been the first to enter the military service ; but to help England and Austria against the greatest man in the world, that is not good. "Prince Andreï merely shrugged his shoulders at Pierre's childish talk. He pretended that it was impos- sible to reply to such stupidities, but in reality it was difficult to settle this naïve question in any other way than as Prince Andreï did answer it. "If all men made war only for their convictions, there would be no war, "said he. "That would be splendid, "said Pierre. Prince Andreï laughed. "Very likely it would be splendid, but it will never be. ""Now, why are you going to war? "asked Pierre. It must be so. Besides, 66 ' Why? I don't know. I'm going "- He paused. "I am going because the life which I lead here, my life, is not to my mind. "THE rustle of a woman's gown was heard in the ad- joining room. As if caught napping, Prince Andreï shook himself, and his face assumed the same expres- sion which it had worn in Anna Pavlovna's drawing- room. Pierre set his feet down from the sofa. The princess came in. She had already changed her gown for another, a house dress, but equally fresh and elegant. Prince Andrer got up and courteously pushed forward an easy - chair. 66 ' Why is it, I often wonder, "she remarked, speaking as always in French, and at the same time briskly and spryly sitting down in the easy - chair, "why Annette never married. How stupid you all are, messieurs, that you never married her. You will excuse me for saying so, but you have not the slightest notion how to talk with women. What an arguer you are, Monsieur Pierre. ""Your husband and I were just this moment arguing. I cannot understand why he wants to go to war, "said Pierre, addressing the princess without any of the em- barrassment so commonly shown in the relations of a young man toward a young woman. The princess gave a start. Evidently Pierre's words touched her to the quick. "Ah, that is exactly what I say! "said she. "I do not understand, really I do not understand why men cannot live without war. Why is it that we women do not want it and do not need it at all? Now you be the judge. I will put the matter just as it is : here he is adjutant to uncle, a most brilliant position. Everybody knows him. Everybody esteems him. The other day at the Apraksins ' I heard a lady asking : ' Is that the famous Prince Andrei? ' On my word of honor! "She laughed. "He is received so everywhere. He might very easily be even one of his majesty's aides. Emperor spoke very cordially with him. I have talked it all over ; it might be ranged. What do you think? "You know the Annette and very easily ar- Pierre glanced at Prince Andreï, and seeing that this conversation did not please his friend, made no reply to her. "When are you going? "he asked. "Ah! don't speak of going, don't speak of it. I do not wish to hear a word of it! "exclaimed the princess, in the same capriciously vivacious tone in which she had spoken to Ippolit. It was obviously out of place in the family circle, in which Pierre was an adopted member. "To - day when it came over me that I had to break off from all these pleasant relations- and then, you know, André❞— She blinked her eyes significantly at her husband. "I dread it, I dread it, "she whispered, making a shiver run down her back. Her husband looked at her with a surprised expres- sion, as if for the first time he had noticed that any one besides himself and Pierre had come into the room. Then with a cool politeness he addressed his wife, in- quiringly : "What is it that you dread, Liza. I cannot under- stand, "said he. "Now how selfish all you men are, all, all selfish. Simply from his own whim, God knows why, he deserts me, shuts me up in the country alone. ""With my father and sister, don't forget that, "said Prince Andrer, gently. "All alone, just the same, away from my friends- and he expects me not to be afraid. "Her tone grew querulous ; her lip was lifted, so that her face looked not mirthful, but repulsive and like a squirrel's. She paused, as if she regarded it as inde- corous to speak of her condition before Pierre, though this was the real secret of her fear. "And still I do not understand what you dread, "said Prince Andreï, deliberately, not taking his eyes from his wife. The princess blushed and spread open her hands with a gesture of despair. "No, André, I insist upon it, you have changed so! ""Your doctor bids you go to bed earlier, "said Prince Andreï. "You had better retire. "The princess made no answer, and suddenly her short downy lip trembled ; Prince Andrer, shrugging his shoulders, began to walk up and down the room. Pierre gazed through his glasses with naïve curiosity, first at him, then at the princess, and made a motion as if he also would get up, but then changed his mind. "What difference does it make to me if Monsieur Pierre is here! "suddenly exclaimed the little princess, and her pretty face at the same time was contracted into a tearful grimace. "I have been wanting for a long time to ask you, André, why you have changed toward me so? What have I done to you? You are going to the army, you do not pity me at all. Why is it? """Lise! "exclaimed Prince Andreï, but this one word carried an entreaty, a threat, and above all a conviction that she herself would regret what she had said ; but she went on hurriedly : "You treat me as if I were ill or a child. I see it all. You were not so six months ago. "66 Lise, I beg of you to stop, "said Prince Andreï, still more earnestly. Pierre, growing more and more agitated as this con- versation proceeded, arose and went to the princess. He evidently could not endure the sight of tears, and he himself was ready to weep. "Calm yourself, princess. This is only your fancy, because, I assure you, I myself have experienced.... because.. No, excuse me, a stranger is in No, calm yourself.... good - by. "and so the way........ Prince Andreï detained him, taking him by the arm : "No, stay, Pierre. The princess is so kind that she will not have the heart to deprive me of the pleasure of spending the rest of the evening with you. ""Yes, he only thinks about his own pleasure! "ex- claimed the princess, not restraining her angry tears. "Lise, "said Prince Andreï, dryly, raising his voice sufficiently to show that his patience was exhausted. Suddenly the angry, squirrel - like expression on the princess's pretty little face changed to one of alarm, both fascinating and provocative of sympathy ; her beautiful eyes looked from under her long lashes at her husband, and there came into her face that timid look of subjection such as a dog has when it wags its. drooping tail quickly but doubtfully. "Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu! "muttered the princess, and gathering up the skirt of her dress with one hand, she went to her husband and kissed him on the fore- head. 66 Good - night, Lise, "said Prince Andreï, getting up and courteously kissing her hand, as if she were a stranger. THE friends were silent. Neither the one nor the other felt like being the first to speak. Pierre looked at Prince Andreï ; Prince Andreï rubbed his forehead with his slender hand. "Let us have some supper, "said he, with a sigh, getting up and going to the door. They went into the dining - room, elegantly, newly, and richly furnished in the latest style. Everything, from the napkins to the silver, the china, and the glassware, had that peculiar imprint of newness which is charac- teristic of the establishment of a young couple. In the midst of supper, Prince Andreï leaned forward on his elbows, and, like a man who has for a long time had something on his heart and suddenly determines to confess it, he began to talk with an expression of nervous exasperation such as Pierre had never before beheld in his friend : "Never, never get married, my friend! This is my advice to you. Do not marry until you have come to the conclusion that you have done all that is in your power to do and until you have ceased to love the woman whom you have chosen, until you have seen clearly what she is ; otherwise you will make a sad and irreparable mistake. When you are old and good for nothing, then get married..... Otherwise, all that is good and noble in you will be thrown away. All will be wasted in trifles. Yes, yes, yes! Don't look at me in such amazement. If ever you have any hope of any- thing ahead of you, you will be made to feel at every step that, as far as you are concerned, all is at an end, all closed to you, except the drawing - room, where you will rank with court lackeys and idiots. That's a fact! "He waved his hand energetically. - Pierre took off his spectacles, and this made his face, as he gazed in amazement at his friend, even more ex- pressive than usual of his goodness of heart. "My wife, "continued Prince Andreï, "is a lovely woman. She is one of those few women to whom a man can feel that his honor is safely intrusted ; but, my God! what would I not give at this moment if I were not married! You are the first and only person to whom I have said this, and it is because I love you. "Prince Andreï, in saying this, was still less like the Bolkonsky who, that same evening, had been sitting in Anna Pavlovna's easy - chairs, murmuring French phrases as he blinked his eyes. Every muscle in his spare face was quivering with nervous animation ; his eyes, in which before the fire of life seemed to be extinguished, now gleamed with a fierce and intense brilliancy. It was evident that, however lacking in life he might appear in ordinary circumstances, he more than made up for it by his energy at moments of almost morbid excitability. went on. "You cannot understand why I say this to you, "he "Why, it is the whole history of a life. You talk about Bonaparte and his career, "said he, although Pierre had not said a word about Bonaparte. "You talk about Bonaparte, but Bonaparte, when he was toil- ing, went step by step straight for his goal ; he was free ; he let nothing stand between him and his goal, and he reached it. But tie yourself to a woman and, like a prisoner in chains, your whole freedom is destroyed. And in proportion as you feel that you have hope and powers, the more you will be weighed down and tor- mented with regrets. Drawing - rooms, tittle - tattle, balls, vulgar show, meanness, such is the charmed circle from which I cannot escape. I am now getting ready for the war, the greatest war that ever was, and yet I know nothing and am fit for nothing. I am very, very likable and very keen, "continued Prince Andrei, "and at Anna Pavlovna's they like to hear me talk. And this stupid society, without which my wife cannot live, and these women If you could only know what all these distinguished women and women in general amount to! My father is right. Egotism, ostentation, stupidity, meanness in every respect — such are women when they show themselves as they are. You see them in society and think that they amount to something, but they are naught, naught, naught! No, don't marry, my dear heart, don't marry, "said Prince Andreï in conclusion..... "It seems ridiculous to me, "said Pierre, "that you should regard yourself as incapable and your life as spoiled. Everything is before you — everything. And you.... ' ""- He did not finish his sentence, but his very tone made it evident how highly he prized his friend and how much he expected from him in the future. "How can he speak so! "thought Pierre, who con- sidered Prince Andrer the model of all accomplishments, for the very reason that Prince Andreï united in himself, to the highest degree, all those qualities that were lack- ing in Pierre, and that more nearly than anything else expresses the concept, will - power. - Pierre always admired Prince Andrer's ability to meet with perfect ease all sorts of people, his extraordinary memory, his breadth of knowledge, he had read everything, he knew about everything, he had ideas on every subject, and, above all, his powers of work and study. And if Pierre was often struck by Andrer's lack of aptitude for speculative philosophy - which was his own specialty - he at least regarded it not as a fault but as a sign of strength. In all the best relations, however friendly and simple, flattery or praise is indispensable, just as grease is in- dispensable for making wheels move easily. "I have reached the end of things, "said Prince Andreï. "What is there to say about me! Let us talk about yourself, "said he, after a short silence, and smil- ing at his consoling thoughts. This smile was instantly reflected on Pierre's face. "But what is there to say about me, "asked Pierre, his lips parting in a gay, careless smile. "What am I, anyway? I am a bastard! "And suddenly his face grew red. It was evident that he had exerted great effort to say that. "Without name, without fortune!.... And yet it is true..... "He did not say what was true. "I am free for the present, and I like it. Only I don't know what to take up. I should like to have a serious talk with you on the subject. "Prince Andrer looked at him with kindly eyes. But his glance, friendly and affectionate as it was, betrayed the consciousness of his superiority. It "I am fond of you for the special reason that you are the only live man in all our circle. It is well with you. Choose whatever you like, it is all the same. will be well with you anywhere ; but there's one thing. Stop going to those Kuragins ' and leading their kind of life. That sort of thing does not become you : all those revels, that wild life, and all- """What do you care, my dear fellow, "exclaimed Pierre, shrugging his shoulders, "women, my dear, women! ""I don't understand it, "replied Andreï. "Respecta- ble women, that is another thing, but Kuragin's women, women and wine, I don't understand it. "Pierre had been living at Prince Vasíli Kuragin's, and had been taking part in the dissipated life of his son Anatol, the very same young man to whom it had been proposed to marry Prince Andrer's sister in order to reform him. "Do you know, "said Pierre, as if a happy thought had come unexpectedly into his mind, "seriously, I have been thinking about it for some time. Since I have been leading this sort of life, I have not been able to think or to come to any decision. My head aches ; I have no money. This evening he invited me, but I am not going. ""Give me your word of honor that you will not go again. ""Here's my word on it! "It was already two o'clock when Pierre left his friend. It was a luminous June night, characteristic of Peters- burg. Pierre took his seat in the hired carriage, with the intention of going home, but the farther he rode the more impossible he found it to think of sleeping on such a night, which was more like twilight or early morning. He could see far down through the empty streets. On the way it occurred to him that the gam- bling club were to meet as usual that evening at Anatol Kuragin's, after which they were accustomed to have a drinking bout, topping off with one of Pierre's favorite entertainments. "It would be good fun to go to Kuragin's, "said he to himself, but instantly he remembered that he had given Prince Andrer his word of honor not to go there again. But, as happens to men of no strength of charac- ter, he immediately felt such a violent desire to have one more last taste of this dissipated life, so well known to him, that he determined to go. And, in excuse for it, the thought entered his mind that his promise was not binding, because, before he had given it to Prince Andrey, he had also promised Anatol to be present at his house ; moreover, he reasoned that all such pledges were merely conditional and had no definite meaning, especially if it were taken into consideration that per- haps by the next day he might be dead, or something might happen to him so extraordinary that the distinc- tions of honorable and dishonorable would entirely vanish. Arguments of this nature often occurred to Pierre, entirely nullifying his plans and purposes. He went to Kuragin's. Driving up to the great house at the Horse - Guard barracks, where Anatol lived, he sprang upon the lighted porch, ran up the steps, and entered the open door. There was no one in the anteroom ; empty bottles, cloaks, and overshoes were scattered about ; there was an odor of wine ; farther on he heard loud talking and shouts. Play and supper were over, but the guests had not yet dispersed. Pierre threw off his cloak and went into the first room, where were the remains of the supper : a single waiter, thinking that no one could see him, was stealthily drinking up the wine in the half - empty glasses. In a third room were heard the sounds of scuffling, laughter, the shouts of well - known voices, and the growl of a bear. Eight young men were eagerly crowding around an open window. Three were having sport with the young bear which one of their number was dragging by a chain and trying to frighten the others with. "I bet a hundred on Stevens, "cried one. "See, he can't hold him, "cried a second. "I bet on Dolokhof, "cried a third. lows away, Kuragin. ""Get those fel- "There, let Mishka go! This is the wager. ""Without stopping to breathe, or he loses, "cried a fourth. ""' Yakof, bring the bottle, Yakof! "cried the host of the evening, a tall, handsome fellow, standing in the midst of the crowd, in a single thin shirt, thrown open at the chest. "Hold on, gentlemen! Here he is, here is our dear friend, Petrushka, "he cried, addressing Pierre. A short man, with clear blue eyes, whose voice, 1 among all those drunken voices, was noticeable for its tone of sobriety, shouted from the window : "Come here and hear about the wagers. "This was Dolokhof, an officer of the Semyonovsky regiment, a well - known gambler and duelist, whose home was with Anatol. Pierre smiled, as he gayly looked around him. "I don't understand at all. What's up? ""Hold on! He's not drunk. He's not drunk. Bring a bottle, "cried Anatol, and taking a glass from the table, went up to Pierre, - "First of all, drink. "Pierre proceeded to drain glass after glass, at the same time closely observing and listening to the drunken guests, who had again crowded around the window. Anatol kept his glass filled with wine, and told him how Dolokhof had laid a wager with Stevens, an English naval man who happened to be there, that he, Dolokhof, was to drink a bottle of rum, sitting in the third story window with his legs hanging out. "There, now, drink it all, "said Anatol, handing the last glass to Pierre, "I shan't let you off. ""No, I don't wish any more, "replied Pierre, and pushing Anatol aside, he went to the window. Dolo- khof was holding the Englishman by the arm, and was clearly and explicitly laying down the conditions of the wager, turning more particularly to Anatol and Pierre, as they approached. Dolokhof was a man of medium height, with curly hair and bright blue eyes. He was twenty - five years old. Like all infantry officers, he wore no mustache, so that his mouth, which was the most striking feature of his face, was wholly revealed. The lines of the mouth were drawn with remarkable delicacy. The upper lip closed firmly over the strong lower one in a sharp curve at the center, and in the corners hovered constantly something in the nature of two smiles - one in each corner! and all taken together and especially in con- junction with a straightforward, bold, intelligent look, made it impossible not to take notice of his face. Dolokhof was not a rich man, and he had no influen tial connections. But although Anatol spent ten thou- sand rubles a year and it was known that Dolokhof lived with him, nevertheless, he had succeeded in winning such a position that Anatol and all who were acquainted with the two men had a higher regard for him than for Anatol. Dolokhof played nearly every kind of a game and almost always won. However much he drank, he never was known to lose his head. Both Kurágin and Dolokhof were at this time notorious among the rakes and spendthrifts of Petersburg. The bottle of rum was brought. Two lackeys, evi- dently made timid and nervous by the orders and shouts of the boon companions, tried to pull away the sash that hindered any one from sitting on the outer slope of the window - seat. Anatol, with his swaggering way, came up to the window. He wanted to smash something. He pushed the lackeys away and tugged at the sash, but the sash would not yield. He broke the window - panes. "Now you try it, you man of muscle, "said he, call- ing Pierre. Pierre seized hold of the cross - bar, gave a pull, and the oaken framework gave way with a crash. "Take it all out, or they'll think I clung to it, "said Dolokhof. "The Englishman accepts it, does he? — All right? "asked Anatol. "All right, "said Pierre, glancing at Dolokhof, who took the bottle of rum and went to the window, through which could be seen the sky where the evening and morning light were beginning to mingle. He leaped on the window - sill with the bottle in his hand. "Listen! "he cried, as he stood there and looked back into the room. All were silent. "I wager, "he spoke French so that the English- man might understand him, and spoke it none too well either, "I wager fifty sovereigns ; or perhaps you prefer a hundred? "he added, addressing the English- man. "No, fifty, "replied the Englishman. - "Very well, then, fifty it is, that I will drink this whole bottle of rum without taking it once from my mouth ; drink it sitting in this window, in that place there "— he bent over and pointed to the sloping pro- jection of the wall outside the window, "and not holding on to anything. Is that understood? ""Very good, "said the Englishman. --- Anatol turned to the Englishman, and, holding him by the button of his coat and looking down on him, for the Englishman was short, began to repeat the terms of the wager in English. "Hold! "cried Dolokhof, thumping on the window with the bottle, in order to attract attention, — hold, Kuragin, listen! If any one else does the same thing, then I will pay down a hundred sovereigns. Do you understand? The Englishman nodded his head, though he did not make it apparent whether or no he were prepared to accept this new wager. Anatol still held him by the button, and, in spite of the nods that he made to signify that he understood all that was said, Anatol insisted on translating Dolokhof's words for him into English. A lean young Lifeguardsman, who had been playing a losing game all the evening, climbed on the window, leaned over, and gazed down, "Oo! Oo! Oo! "he exclaimed, as he looked down from the window to the flagstones below. "Hush! "cried Dolokhof, and he pulled the officer back from the window, who, getting his feet entangled in his spurs, awkwardly leaped down into the room. Placing the bottle on the window - sill so as to be within reach, Dolokhof warily and coolly climbed into the window. Letting down his legs and spreading out both hands, he measured the width of the window, sat down, let go his hands, moved to the right, then to the left, and took up the bottle. Anatol brought two can- dles and set them on the window - seat, although it was now quite light. Dolokhof's back, in the white shirt, and his curly head were illuminated on both sides. All gathered around the window. The Englishman stood in the front row. Pierre smiled and said nothing. One of the older men present suddenly stepped forward, with a stern and frightened face, and attempted to seize Dolokhof by the shirt. Gentlemen, this is folly ; he will kill himself, "said this man, who was less foolhardy than the rest. Anatol restrained him, "Don't touch him ; you will startle him, and then he might fall. What if he should? Hey? "Dolokhof turned around, straightening himself up, and again stretching out his hands. "If any one touches me again, "said he, hissing the words through his thin compressed lips, "I will send him flying down there! So now! "Thus having spoken, he resumed his former position, dropped his hands, and seizing the bottle he put it to his lips, bent his head back, and raised his free arm as a balance. One of the lackeys, who had begun to clear away the broken glass, paused in his work, and, still bending down, fixed his eyes on the window and Dolo- khof's back. Anatol stood straight with staring eyes. The Englishman, thrusting out his lips, looked askance. The man who had tried to stop the proceeding repaired to one corner of the room and threw himself on the divan, with his face to the wall. Pierre covered his eyes, and though the feeble smile still hovered over his lips, his face now expressed horror and apprehension. All were silent. Pierre took his hand from his eyes. Dolokhof was still sitting in the same position, only his head was thrown farther back, so that the curly hair in the nape of his neck touched his shirt - collar, and the hand holding the bottle was lifted higher and higher, trembling under the effort. The bottle was evidently nearly empty and consequently had to be held almost perpendicularly over his head. "Why should it take so long? "thought Pierre. It seemed to him as if more than a half - hour had elapsed Suddenly Dolokhof's body made a backward motion. and his hand trembled nervously ; this tremor was suffi- cient to make him slip as he sat on the sloping ledge. In fact, he slipped, and his arm and head wavered more violently as he struggled to regain his balance. He stretched out one hand to clutch the window - seat, but refrained from touching it. Pierre again covered his eyes, and declared to him- self that he would not open them again. Suddenly he was conscious that there was a commotion around him. He looked up. Dolokhof was standing on the window- seat ; his face was pale but radiant. "Empty! "He flung the bottle at the Englishman, who cleverly caught it. Dolokhof sprang down from the window. He exhaled a powerful odor of rum. "Capital! ""Bravo! ""Bravo! "- "That's a wager worth while! "- "The devil take you all, "were the shouts that rang from all sides. The Englishman, taking out his purse, was counting out his money. Dolokhof was scowling, and had nothing Pierre started for the window. to say. 66 Gentlemen! Who wants to make the bet with me ; I will do the same thing, "he cried. need of any wager. "But there's no Give me a bottle. I will do it any- way. Bring a bottle. "Let him! Let him! "said Dolokhof, smiling. "What is the matter with you? "- "Are you beside yourself? "— "We won't let you! "— "It makes you dizzy even on a staircase, "were shouted from various sides. ""' I will drink it ; give me a bottle of rum, "cried Pierre, pounding on the table with a drunken and resolute ges- ture, and climbing into the window. He was seized by the arm, but his strength was so great that whoever approached him was sent flying across the room. "No, you will never dissuade him that way, "said Anatol. "Hold on ; I will deceive him. Listen, I will make the wager with you, but to - morrow ; but now we are all going to -'s. ""Come on, "cried Pierre, "come on! And we will take Mishka with us. "And seizing the bear, he began to gallop round the room with him. PRINCE VASÍLI fulfilled the promise which he had made to the Princess Drubetskaya, when she asked him on the evening of Anna Pavlovna's reception, to help her only son, Borís. The request had been preferred to the emperor, and contrary to the experience of many others, he was allowed to enter the Semyonovsky regi- ment of the Guard as ensign. But in spite of all Anna Mikhailovna's efforts and intrigues, Borís failed of his employment as aide or attaché to Kutuzof. Shortly after Anna Pavlovna's reception, the princess returned to Moscow and went straight to her rich rela- tives, the Rostofs, at whose house she always stayed when visiting in Moscow, and where her idolized Borenka had been educated from early childhood and had lived some years, waiting to be transferred from the Line to his position as ensign of the Guard. The Guard had already left Petersburg on the twenty - second of August, and the young man, delayed in Moscow by his uniform and outfit, was to join his regiment at Rad- zivílof. The Rostofs were celebrating the name - day of the mother and the youngest daughter, both of whom were named Natalia. Since morning there had been an un- ceasing stream of carriages coming and going with guests, who brought their congratulations to the coun- tess's great mansion on the Povarskaya, so well known to all Moscow. The countess herself and her eldest daughter, a beautiful girl, were in the drawing - room receiving the guests, whose places were constantly filled by newcomers. The Countess Rostova was a woman of forty - five, of a thin Oriental type of countenance, and evidently worn out by her cares as mother of a family of a dozen children. Her deliberateness of motion and speech, arising from her lack of strength, gave her a certain appearance of dignity which commanded respect. The Princess Anna Mikhailovna Drubetskaya, in her capacity of friend of the family, was also in the draw- ing - room, helping to receive the company and join in the conversation. The young people were in the rear rooms, not considering it incumbent upon them to take part in receiving the visitors. The count met the guests, and escorted them to the door again, urging them all to dine with him. "Very, very much obliged to you, ma chère or mon cher "( ma chère or mon cher he said to all without excep. tion, without the slightest shadow of difference whether his guests stood high or low in the social scale ), "much obliged to you for myself and for my dear ones whose name - day we are celebrating. See here, come in to dinner. You will affront me, if you do not, mon cher. Cordially I invite you, and my whole family join with me, ma chère. "These words he repeated to all, without exception or variation, with an unchanging expression on his round, jolly, and clean - shaven countenance, and with a monoto- nously firm grip of the hand, and with repeated short bows. Having escorted a guest to his carriage, the count would return to this, that, or the other visitor still remaining in the drawing - room ; dropping down on a chair, with the aspect of a man who understands and enjoys the secret of life, he would cross his legs in boy- ish fashion, lay his hands on his knees, and shaking his head significantly, would set forth his conjectures con- cerning the weather, or exchange confidences about health, sometimes speaking in Russian, sometimes in very execrable but self - confident French, and then again with the air of a weary man, who is nevertheless bound to fulfil all obligations, he would go to the door with still another departing guest, straightening the thin gray hairs on his bald head, and dutifully proffering the in- vitations to dinner. Sometimes returning through the entry to the drawing - room, he would pass through the conservatory and butler's room to the great marble hall where covers were laid for eighty guests, and, glancing at the butlers who were bringing the silver and china, setting the tables and unfolding the damask table - linen, he would call to him Dimitri Vasilyevitch, a man of noble family, who had charge of all his affairs, and would say : - "Well, well, Mítenka, see that everything is all right. That's good, that's good, "he would say, glancing with satisfaction on the huge extension table. "The prin- cipal thing is the service. Very good, very good. "And with a deep sigh of satisfaction, he would go back to the drawing - room once more. "Marya Lvovna Karagina and her daughter, "an- nounced the countess's footman, in a thundering bass voice, coming to the door. The countess was thought- ful for a moment, and took a pinch of snuff from a gold snuff - box ornamented with a portrait of her husband. "These callers have tired me out, "said she. "Well, she is the last one I shall receive. She is very affected. Ask her to come in, "said she to the footman, in a mournful voice, as if her words had been : "Kill me and have done with it. "A tall, portly, haughty - looking lady, in a rustling gown, came into the drawing - room, followed by her round - faced, smiling young daughter. "".... """Dear Countess, it has been such a long time.... she has been ill in bed, poor girl. ' "At the Razumovsky ball.... ' "Et la Comtesse Apraksine.... "I have had such an enjoyable time.... "Such were the phrases, spoken by lively feminine voices interrupt- ing one another, and mingling with the rustle of silks and the moving of chairs. That sort of conversation had begun which is ex- pressly contrived so that at the first pause the visitor is ready to get up and, with a rustling of garments, to murmur : "I am charmed.... mamma's health.... and the Countess Apraksina "-and again with rustling gar- ments to beat a retreat into the anteroom, to throw on the shuba or the cloak, and to depart. The conversation was turning on the chief item of city news at that time, namely, the illness of the well- known old Count Bezukhor, one of the richest and handsomest men of Catherine's time, and also about his illegitimate son, Pierre, the same young man who had conducted himself in such an unseemly manner at Anna Pavlovna's reception.. "I am very sorry for the old count, "said one of the ladies, "his health is so wretched, and now the morti- fication his son causes him it will be the death of him. ""What is that? "asked the countess, as if she were not aware of what the visitor was talking about, although she had heard fifty times already the cause of Count Bezukhor's mortification. "It all comes from the present system of education. Sending them abroad! "pursued the lady. "This young man has been left to himself, and now they say that he has been carrying on so horribly in Petersburg that the police had to send him out of the city. ""Pray, tell us about it, "urged the countess. "He made a bad choice of friends, "remarked the Princess Anna Mikhaïlovna. "Prince Vasíli's son, this Pierre, and a Dolokhof, they say, have been doing- heaven only knows what. But all of them have had to suffer for it. Dolokhof has been reduced to the ranks, and Bezukhor's son has been sent to Moscow, and Anatol Kuragin has been taken in charge by his father. At all events, he has been sent away from. Petersburg. ""Yes, but, pray, what have they been doing? "asked the countess. "They acted like perfect cutthroats, especially Dolo- khof, "said the visitor. "He is a son of Marya Ivan- ovna Dolokhova, - such an excellent woman, just think of it! Can you imagine it? the three of them, some- how, got hold of a bear, took it with them into a car- riage, and carried it to the house of some actresses. The police hastened to apprehend them. They seized the officer and tied him back to back to the bear, and then threw the bear into the Morka ; the bear floated off with the police officer on his back! ""Capital, ma chère, what a figure the officer must have cut! "cried the count, bursting with laughter. "Oh, how terrible! how can you laugh, count? "But the ladies had to laugh in spite of themselves. "It was with difficulty that they rescued the unfortu- nate man, "pursued the visitor. "And to think that a son of Count Kirill Vladimirovitch Bezukhoï should find amusement in such intellectual pursuits, "she added. "But they say he is so well educated and clever! That shows what educating young men abroad makes of them! I hope that no one will bring him here, though he is so rich. They wanted to introduce him to me. I decidedly refused ; I have daughters. ""Why did you say that this young man was so rich? ' asked the countess, bending away from the younger ladies, who immediately pretended not to hear what she was saying. "You see, he has only illegitimate children. It appears It appears and Pierre is also illegitimate. "The guest waved her hand : "I imagine he has score of them. "- The Princess Anna Mikhaïlovna took part in the conversation, with the evident desire of showing off her powerful connections and her acquaintance with all the details of high life. "This is the truth of the matter, "said she, signifi- cantly, and also in a half - whisper, "Count Kírill Vladí- mirovitch's reputation is notorious ; as for his children, he has lost count of them, but this Pierre has been his favorite. ""How handsome the old man, "said the countess, "and only last year too! I never saw a handsomer man! ""Now he is very much changed, "said Anna Mikhaï- lovna. "As I was going to say, on his wife's side, Prince Vasíli is the direct heir to all his property, but the old man is very fond of Pierre, has taken great pains with his education, and has written to the emperor about him ; so that no one knows, if he should die, he is so co weak, that it may happen any moment, and Dr. Lor- rain has come up from Petersburg, no one knows, I say, which will get his colossal fortune, Pierre or Prince Vasíli. He has forty thousand serfs, and millions! I know all about this, because Prince Vasili himself told me. Yes, and besides, Kírill Vladimirovitch is my great- uncle on my mother's side. And he is also Boris's god- father, "she added, pretending that she attributed no significance to this circumstance. "Prince Vasíli came to Moscow, yesterday. He is on some official business, I was told, "said the guest. "Yes, but entre nous, "said the princess, "that's a pretext ; he has come principally on account of Count Kírill Vladimirovitch, because he knew that he was so sick. "66 ' At all events, ma chère, that was a splendid joke, "said the count ; and perceiving that the elderly visitor did not hear him, he turned his attention to the young ladies. ""Charming figure, that cut by the police officer, -I can imagine it! "And imitating the way the unfortunate police officer would have waved his arms, he again burst out into a ringing bass laugh, which made his portly form fairly shake, as men laugh who always live well, and indulge in generous wines. 66 So glad to have you dine with us, "said he. A SILENCE ensued. The countess looked at the caller, smiling pleasantly, but nevertheless making no pretense to hide that she would not be sorry if she got up and took her departure. The daughter was already arranging her dress and looking inquiringly at her mother, when suddenly there was heard in the next room the noise of several persons running toward the door, then the catching and upsetting of a chair, and instantly into the drawing - room darted a maiden of thirteen, fold- ing something in her short muslin skirt. She halted in the middle of the room, and it was evident that her wild frolic had carried her farther than she had intended. At the same instant there appeared in the door a student with a crimson collar, a young officer of the Guard, a maiden of fifteen, and a plump rosy - faced little boy in a frock. The count jumped up, and opening out his arms, threw them around the little girl who had come run- ning in. "Ah! here she is, "he cried, with a jolly laugh. "Her name - day, ma chère, her name - day! ""My dear girl, there is a time for all things, "said the countess, feigning severity. "You are always spoiling her, Élie, "she added, addressing her husband. "How do you do, my dear ; I congratulate you, "said the visitor. "What a fascinating girl! "she added, turning to the mother. The little maiden was at that charming age when she is no longer a child nor yet a young lady. She was full of life, but not pretty. Her eyes were black and her mouth was large ; her bare childish shoulders were ris- ing and falling in her bodice from the excitement of her race ; her dark locks were tossed back ; her thin arms were bare ; she wore lace - trimmed pantalets and her low shoes displayed her slender little ankles. Tearing herself away from her father, she ran to her mother, and giving no heed to her stern reproof, hid her blushing face in the lace folds of her mother's mantilla, and went into a fit of laughter. The cause of her laughter was the doll which she took out from under her skirt, trying to tell some fragmentary story about it..... 99 "Do you see? doll.... Mimi.... You see.... ' my And Natasha was unable to say any more, it all seemed to her so ludicrous. She leaned on her mother and laughed so merrily and infectiously, that all, even the conceited visitor, in spite of herself, joined in her amusement. "Now, run away, run away with your monster, "ad- monished the mother, pushing away her daughter with pretended sternness. turning to the visitor. "She is my youngest, "she added, Natasha, for a moment raising her face from her mother's lace mantle, glanced up at the stranger through her tears of laughter and again hid her face. The visitor, compelled to admire this family scene, felt it incumbent upon her to take some part in it. "Tell me, my dear, "said she, addressing Natasha, "what relation is this Mimi to you? She is your daughter, I suppose. "Natasha was displeased by the condescending tone in which the lady addressed her. She made no reply and looked solemnly at her. Meantime, all the young people - the officer, Borís, the son of the Princess Anna Mikhailovna, Nikolaï the student, the count's oldest son, Sonya, the count's fifteen - year - old niece, and the little Petrusha, his young- est boy - crowded into the drawing - room, evidently doing their utmost to restrain within the bounds of propriety the excitement and merriment that convulsed their faces. It could be seen that there in the rear rooms, from which they had rushed so impetuously, they had been engaged in much more entertaining con- versation than town gossip, the weather, and the Coun- tess Apraksina. Occasionally they would glance at one another and find it hard to refrain from bursting out laughing again. The two young men, the student and the officer, who had been friends from childhood, were of the same age and were both good - looking, but totally unlike each other. Boris was tall and fair, with regular, deli- cate features and a placid expression. Nikolaï was a short, curly - haired young man, with a frank, open coun- tenance. On his upper lip the first dark down had already begun to appear, and his whole face was expressive of impetuosity and enthusiasm. Nikolaï's face had flushed crimson the moment he entered the drawing - room. It was plain to see that he strove in vain to find something to say : Boris, on the contrary, immediately regained his self - possession, and began to relate, calmly and humorously, how he had been ac- quainted with this Mimi - kulka when she was a fine young lady, before her nose had lost its beauty ; how since their acquaintance, begun five years before, she had grown aged and cracked as to the whole surface of her cranium! As he said this he looked at Natasha, but she turned away from him and looked at her little brother, who was squeezing his eyes together and shaking with suppressed laughter, and finding that she could no longer control herself, snickered out loud and darted from the room as fast as her nimble little feet would carry her. Borís managed to preserve his composure. ""Maman, do you not want to go for a drive? Shall I order the carriage? "he asked, turning to his mother with a smile. Yes, yes, go and order it, please, "said she, return- ing his smile. Borís quietly left the room and went in pursuit of Natasha ; the plump little boy trotted sturdily after them, as if he was vexed at heart at the disarrangement made in his plans.                       
