
“Eh bien, mon prince, so Genoa and Lucca are now no more than family estates of the Bonapartes. No, I warn you, if you don’t say that this means war, if you still permit yourself to condone all the infamies, all the atrocities, of this Antichrist—and that’s what I really believe he is—I will have nothing more to do with you, you are no longer my friend, my faithful slave, as you say. But how do you do, how do you do? I see that I am frightening you. Sit down and tell me all about it.”
With these words the renowned Anna Pavlovna Scherer, lady-in-waiting and confidante to the Empress Marya Fyodorovna, greeted Prince Vasily, a man of high rank and office, who was the first to arrive at her soirée on a July evening in the year 1805.
Anna Pavlovna had been coughing for several days after having had the grippe, as she said (grippe being a new word used only by the elite). Her notes of invitation, written in French and delivered that morning by a scarlet-liveried footman, were, without exception, all the same.

If you have nothing better to do, Monsieur le comte (or mon prince), and if the prospect of spending an evening with a poor invalid is not too frightening, I should be delighted to see you at my house between seven and ten this evening. Annette Scherer

“Mon Dieu, what a scathing attack!” the Prince responded, not in the least disconcerted by this reception, as he came in wearing his embroidered court uniform, knee breeches, and low shoes, with stars on his breast and a serene expression on his flat face. He spoke that courtly French in which our grandparents not only spoke but thought, and in the bland, condescending tone characteristic of a man of consequence grown old in society and at court. He went up to Anna Pavlovna and, presenting his gleaming, perfumed bald head, kissed her hand and placidly seated himself on the sofa.
“First of all, tell me how you are, chère amie. Set my mind at rest,” he said, without altering his voice and intonation, beneath the politeness and concern of which could be detected indifference and even mockery.
“How can one be well—when suffering morally? Do you think it is possible, if one has any feeling, to remain calm in times like these?” asked Anna Pavlovna. “You’re staying all evening, I hope.”
“And the fete at the English ambassador’s? Today is Wednesday. I must put in an appearance there,” said the Prince. “My daughter is coming for me and will take me there.”
“I thought today’s festivities had been canceled. I must say, all these fetes and fireworks are beginning to pall.”
“Had they known that you wished it, the fete would have been postponed,” said the Prince, like a wound-up clock, saying by force of habit things he did not even expect to be believed.
“Don’t tease me. Eh bien, what has been decided in regard to Novosiltsev’s dispatch? Vous savez tout.”
“What can I tell you?” replied the Prince in a cold, bored tone. “What has been decided? They have decided that Bonaparte has burned his boats, and I believe we’re getting ready to burn ours.”
Prince Vasily always spoke listlessly, like an actor repeating a part in an old play. Anna Pavlovna Scherer, on the contrary, was brimming with zest and animation, despite her forty years. To be an enthusiast had become a social attitude with her, and sometimes, even when she did not feel like it, she became enthusiastic in order not to disappoint the expectations of those who knew her. The discreet smile that continually played over her face and was incongruous with her faded features revealed, as in a spoiled child, a constant awareness of the charming defect she neither wished nor could nor even found necessary to correct.
In the midst of a conversation about politics, Anna Pavlovna burst out:
“Oh, don’t talk to me about Austria! It may be that I understand nothing of all this, but Austria never has and never will want war. She is betraying us. Russia alone must be Europe’s savior. Our benefactor is aware of his exalted calling and will be true to it. That is the one thing I have faith in. Our good and sublime sovereign is faced with undertaking the greatest role on earth, and he is so virtuous and noble that God will not forsake him, and he will fulfill his mission and crush the Hydra of revolution, which has become more dreadful than ever in the person of this assassin and miscreant. We alone must expiate the blood of the righteous. And whom can we trust, I ask you? England, with her commercial spirit will not understand, cannot understand, the absolute loftiness of the soul of the Emperor Aleksandr. She has refused to evacuate Malta. She has chosen to see, and even now is seeking, an ulterior motive for our actions. What did they say to Novosiltsev? Nothing. They did not understand, they are incapable of understanding, the self-abnegation of our Emperor, who wants nothing for himself but desires everything for the good of the world. What have they promised? Nothing. And what they have promised they won’t perform. Prussia has already announced that Bonaparte is invincible and that all Europe can do nothing to oppose him. And I don’t believe one word that either Hardenberg or Haugwitz says. That famous Prussian neutrality is nothing but a snare. I believe only in God and the exalted destiny of our gracious Emperor. He will save Europe!” She suddenly stopped and smiled wryly at her own fervor.
“I believe that if they had sent you,” said the Prince with a smile, “instead of our dear Wintzengerode, you would have taken the King of Prussia by storm and won his acquiescence. Will you give me some tea?”
“At once. À propos,” she added, having grown calm again, “there will be two very interesting men here tonight, le vicomte de Mortemart, who is related to the Montmorencys through the Rohans, one of the best French families. He is one of the good émigrés, the genuine ones. And then the Abbé Morio; are you acquainted with that profound intellect? He has been received by the Emperor. Have you heard?”
“Ah! I shall be delighted,” said the Prince. “Tell me,” he added, with elaborate casualness, as if the question he was about to ask had just occurred to him, when in fact it was the chief purpose of his visit, “is it true that the Dowager Empress wants Baron Funke to be appointed first secretary in Vienna? He’s a poor specimen, that Baron, by all accounts.”
Prince Vasily wanted to obtain this post for his son, but others were trying, through the Empress Marya Fyodorovna, to get it for the Baron.
Anna Pavlovna all but closed her eyes to signify that neither she nor anyone else could pass judgment on what the Empress might see fit or be pleased to do.
“Monsieur le baron de Funke was recommended to the Dowager Empress by her sister” was all she said, in a dry, pained tone.
The moment Anna Pavlovna spoke of the Empress, her face assumed an expression of deep, sincere devotion and respect tinged with melancholy, and this occurred every time she mentioned her illustrious patroness. Remarking that Her Majesty had been pleased to show Baron Funke beaucoup d’estime, again her gaze clouded over with melancholy.
The Prince lapsed into an impassive silence. Anna Pavlovna, with the quick-wittedness and tact natural to a courtier and a woman, wanted to give the Prince a little rap on the knuckles for having the temerity to speak disparagingly of a man who had been recommended to the Empress; at the same time she wanted to solace him.
“Mais à propos de votre famille,” she said, “you know that since your daughter came out, everyone has been delighted with her. She is considered a great beauty.”
The Prince bowed to denote his respect and gratitude.
“I often think,” continued Anna Pavlovna after a momentary pause, smiling graciously and drawing nearer to the Prince, as if to show him that the political  and social talk was over and a more intimate conversation was about to begin, “I often think how unfairly life’s favors are apportioned sometimes. Why has fate given you two—I except your youngest, Anatol, whom I do not like”—she interjected, raising her eyebrows and speaking in a peremptory tone—“two such charming children? And, really, you appreciate them less than anyone, so you don’t deserve to have them.”
And she smiled her ecstatic smile.
“Que voulez-vous? I lack the bump of paternity, as Lavater would have said,” retorted the Prince.
“Stop joking. I wanted to have a serious talk with you. You know, I am very displeased with your younger son. Between ourselves”—her face assumed its melancholy expression—“people have been talking about him at Her Majesty’s…and feeling sorry for you.”
The Prince said nothing, but she paused, gazing at him significantly as she waited for a reply. Prince Vasily frowned.
“What am I to do?” he said at last. “You know I have done everything a father could do for their education, and they have both turned out des imbéciles. Ippolit is at least a temperate fool, but Anatol is troublesome. That is the only difference between them,” he said, with a more animated and unnatural smile than usual, which quite distinctly revealed something unexpectedly coarse and disagreeable in the lines around his mouth.
“But why are children born to men like you? If you were not a father, I would have nothing to reproach you with,” said Anna Pavlovna, looking up pensively.
“I am your faithful slave, and to you alone can I confess this: my children are—the bane of my existence. My cross. That is how I explain it to myself. Que voulez-vous?” He broke off with a gesture expressing his resignation to a cruel fate.
Anna Pavlovna grew thoughtful.
“Have you ever thought of marrying off your prodigal son Anatol?” she asked. “They say old maids have a mania for matchmaking. I have never been conscious of such a weakness in myself; however, I have a certain petite personne in mind who is very unhappy with her father, a relative of ours, a Princess Bolkonskaya.”
Prince Vasily made no reply, though with the memory and rapidity of judgment characteristic of a man of the world he indicated by a movement of the head that he had taken in and was considering this information.
“Do you know that that boy costs me forty thousand a year?” he said, apparently unable to check the dismal course of his thoughts. He was silent for a moment and then said: “If it goes on like this, what will it be in five years?…The advantages of being a father! Is this princess rich?”
“Her father is exceedingly rich and miserly. He lives in the country. The famous Prince Bolkonsky, you know, who was retired under the late Emperor and nicknamed ‘the King of Prussia.’ He’s very clever, but eccentric—a difficult man. The poor girl is as unhappy as she can be. She has a brother, an aide-de-camp to Kutuzov, who recently married Lisa Meinen. He’ll be here this evening.”
“Ecoutez, chère Annette,” said the Prince, suddenly taking her hand, and for some reason bending it downward. “Arrange this matter for me and I shall be your faithful slave forever—‘slafe,’ as my village elder writes in his reports to me. She’s of a good family and rich. That’s all I want.”
And with his characteristic familiarity and easy grace, he took the lady-in-waiting’s hand, kissed it, gave it a little shake, and lolled back in his easy chair, his eyes gazing into space.
“Attendez,” said Anna Pavlovna, reflecting. “I’ll speak to Lisa, young Bolkonsky’s wife, this evening. Perhaps it can be arranged. So it will be in your family that I shall begin my apprenticeship as an old maid.” 
Anna Pavlovna’s drawing room was gradually beginning to fill. The highest Petersburg society was there, people of widely differing ages and characters, alike only in the social milieu to which they belonged. Prince Vasily’s daughter, the beautiful Ellen, came to take her father to the ambassador’s fete. She wore a ball gown and her lady-in-waiting insigne. The little Princess Bolkonskaya, known as the most bewitching woman in Petersburg, also arrived; she had been married the previous winter, and, being pregnant, no longer attended any of the gala evenings but still appeared at small gatherings. Prince Vasily’s son, Prince Ippolit, came with Mortemart, whom he introduced; the Abbé Morio and many others had arrived.
“Have you seen my aunt?” or, “You’re not acquainted with ma tante?” Anna Pavlovna said to each new arrival, very gravely leading him to a little old lady with towering bows on her cap, who had emerged from another room as soon as the guests began to arrive, and slowly turning her gaze from the visitor to ma tante, she would pronounce their names and withdraw.
Every guest performed the ceremony of greeting this unknown, uninteresting, and unnecessary aunt. Anna Pavlovna followed these greetings with solemn, melancholy attention, silently approving them. Ma tante repeated exactly the same phrases to each of them concerning his health, her own, and that of Her Majesty, who, thank God, was better today. Out of politeness, the guests concealed their impatience, but it was with a feeling of relief at having performed an arduous duty that they left the old lady, not once to return to her during the entire evening.
The young Princess Bolkonskaya had brought her needlework in a gold-embroidered velvet bag. Her pretty little upper lip, shadowed with a barely perceptible down, was too short for her teeth and, charming as it was when lifted, it was even more charming when drawn down to meet her lower lip. As always with extremely attractive women, her defect—the shortness of her upper lip and her half-open mouth—seemed to be her own distinctive kind of beauty. Everyone took delight in watching this pretty little woman, brimming with health and vitality, who, soon to become a mother, bore her burden so lightly. After being in her company and talking to her for a while, old men and somber, apathetic young men felt themselves becoming, like her, more animated. Talking to her, and seeing at every word her bright smile and flashing white teeth, made a man feel that he was in a particularly amiable humor that evening. And this was true of everyone.
The little Princess, her workbag on her arm, moved around the table with quick, waddling steps and sat down on a sofa near the silver samovar, gaily arranging the folds of her dress as if everything she did was a joy to herself and to all around her.
“I have brought my work,” she said, opening her bag and addressing everyone in general. “See here, Annette,” she added, turning to her hostess, “I hope you haven’t played a trick on me. You wrote me that it was to be une toute petite soirée, and you see how I am got up.”
She held out her arms to show her exquisite lace-trimmed gray dress girdled with a wide ribbon just below the breast.
“Don’t worry, Lisa, you’ll always be the prettiest,” replied Anna Pavlovna.
“You know, my husband is deserting me,” continued the Princess, addressing a general in the same tone and, as always, in French. “He’s going off to get himself killed. Tell me—why this dreadful war?” she said to Prince Vasily, and without waiting for an answer, turned to his daughter, the beautiful Ellen.
“Quelle délicieuse personne que cette petite princesse!” Prince Vasily said to Anna Pavlovna in an undertone.
One of the next arrivals was a stout, heavily built young man with close-cropped hair and spectacles, wearing the light-colored breeches fashionable at the time, a brown dress coat, and a high jabot. This stout young man was the illegitimate son of Count Bezukhov, a celebrated grandee of the Empress Catherine’s time, who now lay dying in Moscow. Having just returned from abroad, where he had been educated, Pierre had not yet entered any branch of government service, and this was his first appearance in society.
Anna Pavlovna greeted him with the nod she accorded the very lowest rank in the hierarchy of her salon. But despite this minimal greeting, when she saw Pierre enter the room a look of uneasiness and fear came over her face, as at the sight of something monstrous and alien to the place. While he was, indeed, somewhat bigger than any of the other men in the room, her anxiety could only be ascribed to his intelligent, observant, though shy, and very natural look, which distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room.
“It’s very kind of you, Monsieur Pierre, to come and visit a poor invalid,” said Anna Pavlovna, exchanging a look of dismay with her aunt, to whom she was leading him.
Pierre mumbled something unintelligible and continued searching the room with his eyes. As he went toward the aunt, he bowed to the little Princess, beaming with delight, as if she were a close friend. Anna Pavlovna’s fears proved to be justified, for Pierre walked away from the aunt without waiting to hear her speech about Her Majesty’s health. Appalled, Anna Pavlovna detained him with a question.
“Do you know the Abbé Morio? He is a most interesting man….”
“Yes, I have heard of his plan for a permanent peace; it’s very interesting, but hardly practicable.”
“You think not?” Anna Pavlovna rejoined, simply to say something and return to her duties as hostess. But Pierre now committed a further act of discourtesy. Having left a lady before she had finished speaking to him, he now detained one who was trying to get away from him. With lowered head, his big feet planted far apart, he commenced explaining to Anna Pavlovna why he considered the Abbé’s plan visionary.
“We’ll talk about it later,” said Anna Pavlovna with a smile.
And having got rid of this young man who did not know how to behave, she returned to her duties as hostess, listening, carefully watching, ready to give aid at any point where conversation flagged. Just as the foreman of a spinning mill, once he has set the hands to work, walks through the factory and when he notices any stoppage, any unaccustomed creak or rattle of a spindle, quickly checks its action or sets it going, so Anna Pavlovna moved about her drawing room, approaching now a group that had fallen silent, now one where the talk was immoderately loud, and by a word or some slight rearrangement set the conversation machine in steady, proper motion. Among these cares her anxiety about Pierre was particularly noticeable. She kept an anxious watch on him as he approached the group around Mortemart to listen to what was being said there, and afterward, when he moved to another group where the Abbé Morio was talking.
Pierre had been educated abroad, and this soirée of Anna Pavlovna’s was the first he had ever attended in Russia. He knew that all the intelligentsia of Petersburg was assembled there, and, like a child in a toyshop, he was dazzled and continually fearful of missing any clever conversation there was to be heard. Observing the self-confident, genteel expressions of those present, he kept expecting to hear something especially clever. At last he went up to Morio. The conversation seemed to be interesting and he remained there, waiting for an opportunity to express his own ideas, as young people are so fond of doing. 
Anna Pavlovna’s soirée was in full swing. The spindles hummed steadily and ceaselessly on all sides. With the exception of ma tante and her sole companion, an elderly lady with a plaintive, careworn face, who looked rather out of place in this brilliant society, the company had divided into three groups. One, chiefly masculine, had gathered around the Abbé Morio; another, composed of young people, around Prince Vasily’s daughter, the beautiful Princess Ellen, and the little Princess Bolkonskaya, rosy and pretty, but a little too plump for her age; and the third around Mortemart and Anna Pavlovna.
The Viscount was an attractive young man with bland features and gracious manners who evidently considered himself a celebrity, but, out of politeness, modestly placed himself at the disposal of the company in which he found himself. Anna Pavlovna was obviously serving him up as a treat to her guests. Just as a good maître d’hôtel will present as something superlatively fine a piece of beef that no one who had seen it in the dirty kitchen would have touched, so on this evening Anna Pavlovna was serving up to her guests, first the Viscount, then the Abbé, as particularly choice morsels. The group around Mortemart immediately commenced discussing the assassination of the Duke of Enghien. The Viscount said that the Duke’s death was the result of his own magnanimity, and that there were special reasons for Bonaparte’s animosity toward him.
“Ah! Voyons. Contez-nous cela, vicomte,” said Anna Pavlovna, feeling with delight that there was something rather Louis Quinze in her phrase: “Tell us about it, Viscount.”
The Viscount smiled politely and bowed to indicate his complaisance. Anna Pavlovna arranged a circle around him and invited everyone to listen to his story.
“The Viscount was personally acquainted with His Grace,” Anna Pavlovna whispered in French to one of her guests. “The Viscount is a perfect raconteur,” she murmured to another. “Clearly a man of culture,” she remarked to a third, and the Viscount was presented to the company in the most elegant and advantageous style, like a well-garnished roast of beef on a hot platter.
The Viscount showed by a subtle smile that he was quite ready to begin his story.
“Come over here, chère Hélène,” said Anna Pavlovna to the beautiful Princess who was sitting a little way off, the center of another group.
Princess Ellen smiled; she rose with that same unchanging smile, the smile of a perfectly beautiful woman, with which she had entered the drawing room. There was a slight rustle of her moss- and ivy-trimmed ball gown, a gleam of diamonds, lustrous hair, and dazzling white shoulders, as she moved toward Anna Pavlovna. Passing between the men, who made way for her, not looking directly at any of them but smiling on all as if graciously granting them the privilege of admiring her beautiful figure, her shapely shoulders, back, and bosom, which, in the fashion of the day, were very much exposed, she seemed to bring with her the glamour of the ballroom. Ellen was so lovely that not only did she show no trace of coquetry, but, on the contrary, appeared to be almost embarrassed by her undeniable, irresistible, and enthralling beauty. It was as if she wished to diminish its effect while being powerless to do so.
“Quelle belle personne!” said everyone who saw her. And the Viscount, as if struck by something extraordinary, shrugged his shoulders and lowered his eyes when she sat down before him and turned the light of that same unchanging smile upon him.
“Madam, I distrust my skill before such an audience,” he said, smiling and bowing his head.
The Princess leaned her plump bare arm on a little table; finding it unnecessary to reply, she merely smiled and waited. The whole time the story was being told, she sat erect, gazing now and then at her beautiful round arm resting lightly on the table, or at her even more beautiful bosom, on which she readjusted a diamond necklace; from time to time she smoothed the folds of her gown, and whenever the story produced an effect upon the listeners, glanced at Anna Pavlovna, instantly assuming the same expression she saw on the lady-in-waiting’s face, and then again relapsing into her radiant smile.
Following Ellen, the little Princess also left the table.
“Wait for me, I’ll get my work,” she said. “Come, what are you thinking of?” she went on, turning to Prince Ippolit. “Bring me my bag.”
There was a general movement as the little Princess, smiling and talking to everyone, sat down, gaily settling herself in her place.
“Now I’m all right,” she declared, and taking up her work, asked the Viscount to begin.
Prince Ippolit, having brought her her workbag, moved a chair close to hers and sat down beside her.
Le charmant Ippolit struck one not so much by his remarkable resemblance to his beautiful sister as by the fact that despite this resemblance he was surprisingly ugly. His features were the same as hers, but while his sister’s face was lit up by a perpetually beaming, complacent, youthful smile, and her body was of a singularly classic beauty, his face was overcast by an idiotic and invariably peevish, conceited expression, and his body was thin and weak. His eyes, nose, and mouth all seemed to be puckered into a vacant, bored grimace, and his arms and legs always fell into unnatural positions.
“It’s not a ghost story, is it?” he asked in French, sitting down beside the little Princess and hurriedly adjusting his lorgnette to his eyes, as if he could not have begun to speak without it.
“Mais non, mon cher,” retorted the astonished narrator with a shrug of his shoulders.
“Because I detest ghost stories,” said Prince Ippolit in a tone that made it clear he understood the meaning of his words only after he had uttered them.
He spoke with such complete self-confidence that no one could tell whether what he said was very clever or very stupid. He was dressed in a dark green dress coat, knee breeches of a color he called cuisse de nymphe effrayée, low shoes, and stockings.
The Viscount very felicitously related an anecdote then current about the Duke of Enghien going secretly to Paris for a rendezvous with Mademoiselle George and there encountering Bonaparte, who also enjoyed the famous actress’s favors. As a consequence of falling into one of the fainting fits to which he was subject, Napoleon found himself in the Duke’s power, and whereas the Duke refrained from taking advantage of this opportunity, Bonaparte subsequently rewarded his magnanimity by having him put to death.
It was an interesting and charming story, especially at the point where the rivals suddenly recognized each other, and the ladies appeared to be quite excited by it.
“Charmant!” said Anna Pavlovna, with a quizzical glance at the little Princess.
“Charmant!” whispered the little Princess, sticking her needle into her work to show that the charm and interest of the story made it impossible for her to go on.
The Viscount took the general silence as praise and, with a gratified smile, was about to go on when Anna Pavlovna, who had been keeping a watchful eye on the young man who had so appalled her, noticed that he was talking much too loudly and vehemently to the Abbé and rushed to the danger spot. And indeed, Pierre had managed to start a conversation with him on the balance of power, and the Abbé, whose interest had evidently been aroused by the young man’s sincerity and ardor, was enlarging on his pet theory. Both men were talking and listening far too eagerly and naturally to suit Anna Pavlovna.
“The means—European balance of power and the rights of nations,” the Abbé was saying. “It requires but one powerful nation like Russia, celebrated for its barbarism though it may be, to place itself disinterestedly at the head of an alliance having for its aim the balance of power in Europe—and it will save the world!”
“But how are you going to obtain such a balance?” Pierre began.
At that moment Anna Pavlovna came up to them and, after a stern look at  Pierre, asked the Abbé how he was supporting the Russian climate. The Italian’s face instantly changed and took on an offensively hypocritical and saccharine expression, which was evidently habitual to him when conversing with women.
“I have been so captivated by the dazzling wit and culture of the society—especially that of the ladies—into which I have had the good fortune of being received, that I have not yet had time to think of the climate,” he said.
Anna Pavlovna, not letting the Abbé and Pierre escape, now drew them into the general circle, where she could more easily keep them under her observation.
Just then a new face appeared in the drawing room. Prince Andrei Bolkonsky, the little Princess’s husband, had arrived. He was an extremely handsome young man of medium height with clear-cut impassive features. Everything about him, from his weary, jaded aspect to his slow, measured step, was in the sharpest contrast to his vivacious little wife. It was obvious that he not only knew everyone in the drawing room but was so thoroughly bored with them that he found it tedious either to look at them or listen to them. And among all those faces he found so tiresome, none seemed to bore him so much as that of his pretty little wife. He turned away from her with a grimace that distorted his handsome face. After kissing Anna Pavlovna’s hand, he surveyed the company through half-closed eyes.
“So you are off to the war, Prince?” Anna Pavlovna asked him in French.
“General Kutuzov,” replied Bolkonsky, accenting the last syllable of the name like a Frenchman, “has been so kind as to take me as an aide-de-camp.”
“And Lisa?”
“She will go to the country.”
“Aren’t you ashamed to deprive us of your charming wife?”
“Andrei,” said his wife, addressing her husband in the same coquettish tone she used with others, “the Viscount has just been telling us such a tale about Mademoiselle George and Bonaparte!”
Prince Andrei screwed up his eyes and turned away.
Pierre, who had kept his delighted, affectionate gaze on him from the moment he entered the room, now went up to him and took his arm. Prince Andrei frowned with annoyance at being touched, but when he turned and saw Pierre’s beaming face he gave him an unexpectedly kind and friendly smile.
“Well, now!…So you, too, are here in the great world!” he said to Pierre.
“I knew you would be here,” Pierre replied. “I’ll come to supper with you,” he added in a low voice so as not to disturb the Viscount, who was going on with his story. “May I?”
“No, of course not!” said Prince Andrei, laughing and pressing Pierre’s hand to show that there was no need to ask.
He was about to say something more, but at that moment Prince Vasily and his daughter got up to go and the gentlemen stood up to let them pass.
“You must excuse me, my dear Viscount,” said Prince Vasily to the Frenchman, affably holding him down by the sleeve to prevent him from getting up. “This unfortunate fete at the ambassador’s deprives me of a pleasure and obliges me to interrupt you. I am very sorry to leave your enchanting party,” he said to Anna Pavlovna.
His daughter, Princess Ellen, daintily holding back the folds of her gown, passed between the chairs, and the smile shone even more radiantly on her beautiful face. As he watched her, Pierre’s eyes had a rapturous, almost awestruck look.
“Very lovely,” said Prince Andrei.
“Very,” said Pierre.
Prince Vasily grasped Pierre’s hand in passing and said to Anna Pavlovna:
“Civilize this bear for me. He has been living in my house for a whole month, and this is the first time I have seen him in society. Nothing is so important for a young man as the company of clever women.” 
Anna Pavlovna smiled and promised to take Pierre in hand; she knew that Prince Vasily was related to his father by marriage.
The elderly lady who had been sitting with ma tante hurriedly got up and followed Prince Vasily to the anteroom. Her former look of feigned interest had completely vanished, and her kindly, plaintive face now expressed only anxiety and misgiving.
“What have you to tell me, Prince, about my Boris?” she asked, overtaking him in the anteroom. (She pronounced the name Boris with particular stress on the o.) “I cannot remain in Petersburg any longer. Tell me, what news may I take back to my poor boy?”
Despite the fact that Prince Vasily listened to her with a reluctance bordering on discourtesy and made no attempt to conceal his impatience, she gave him a sweet, pathetic smile and took his hand to keep him from leaving.
“It would cost you nothing to say a word to the Emperor—and he would be transferred to the Guards at once,” she pleaded.
“Believe me, Princess, I shall do all I can,” replied Prince Vasily, “but it is not easy for me to ask the Emperor; I should advise you to apply to Rumyantsev through Prince Golitsyn: that would be wisest.”
The elderly lady was a Princess Drubetskaya, who belonged to one of the best families in Russia, but, being poor and having long been out of society, had lost her former connections. She had come to Petersburg to procure an appointment to the Guards for her only son. It was for the sole purpose of seeing Prince Vasily that she had obtained an invitation to Anna Pavlovna’s soirée; for this alone had she sat there listening to the Viscount’s story. She was dismayed by Prince Vasily’s words, and a look of resentment clouded her once beautiful face, but only for a moment; then, smiling once more, she clutched his hand more firmly.
“Listen to me, Prince,” she said. “I have never asked you for anything before, and I never will again; and I have never reminded you of my father’s friendship for you. But now I entreat you for God’s sake to do this for my son, and,” she added hastily, “I shall forever regard you as our benefactor. No, don’t be angry, but promise me. I have asked Golitsyn; he refused. Be the good little boy you used to be,” she said in French, trying to smile, though there were tears in her eyes.
“Papa, we shall be late,” said Princess Ellen, turning her lovely head and looking over her classically beautiful shoulder, as she stood waiting at the door.
But influence is capital that must be economized if it is to last. Prince Vasily knew this, and once having realized that if he interceded on behalf of everyone who appealed to him he would soon be unable to ask anything for himself, he rarely utilized his influence. In Princess Drubetskaya’s case, however, this fresh appeal made him feel something like a twinge of conscience. She had only reminded him of what was true: he was indebted to her father for his first steps in the service. Moreover, he could see by her manner that she was one of those women who, having made up their minds—particularly if they are mothers—will not rest until they have gained their ends, and are prepared to go on importuning day after day, hour after hour, and even to make scenes if necessary. This last consideration caused him to waver.
“Chère Anna Mikhailovna,” he said, with his usual familiarity and languor, “it is almost impossible for me to do what you wish; but to prove my devotion to you and my respect for your father’s memory, I’ll do the impossible: your son shall be transferred to the Guards. Here is my hand on it. Are you satisfied?”
“My dear, you are my benefactor! I expected no less of you—I know how kind you are.”
He turned to go.
“Wait, one more word. Once he is in the Guards—” She hesitated. “You are on good terms with Mikhail Ilarionovich Kutuzov: recommend Boris to him as adjutant. Then I would be at peace, then I could even——”
Prince Vasily smiled.
“That I do not promise. You don’t know how Kutuzov is besieged since being appointed Commander in Chief. He told me himself that all the mothers in Moscow have conspired to present him with their offspring as adjutants.”
“No, promise—I won’t let you go, my dear benefactor!”
“Papa,” his beautiful daughter repeated in the same tone, “we shall be late.”
“Well, au revoir. You see how it is…”
“Then you will speak to the Emperor tomorrow?”
“Without fail; but about Kutuzov I don’t promise.”
“No, promise—promise, Basile,” cried Anna Mikhailovna as he left, affecting the youthful, coquettish smile that at one time had probably been natural to her but that now was ill-suited to her careworn face.
She seemed to have forgotten her age and by force of habit had brought into play all the time-honored feminine devices. But as soon as he had gone, her face resumed its former cold, artificial expression. She returned to the group where the Viscount was still talking and again made a pretense of listening; her object attained, she was merely waiting for a suitable moment to leave.
“And what do you think of this latest farce, the coronation at Milan?” asked Anna Pavlovna, speaking in French. “And of this new comedy of the people of Genoa and Lucca presenting their petitions to Monsieur Bonaparte. Monsieur Bonaparte sitting on a throne and granting the petitions of nations! Entrancing! Why, it’s enough to make one mad! One would think the whole world had lost its wits.”
Prince Andrei smiled sardonically, looking Anna Pavlovna straight in the face.
“‘Dieu me la donne, gare à qui la touche’” (Bonaparte’s words when the crown was placed on his head). “They say he was quite splendid when he spoke those words,” Prince Andrei added, and repeated the phrase in Italian. “‘Dio mi la donna, guai a chi la tocca.’”
“I do hope,” continued Anna Pavlovna, “that this will prove to be the last straw. The sovereigns will no longer be able to put up with this man who menaces everything.”
“The sovereigns? I am not speaking of Russia,” said the Viscount politely but disconsolately. “The sovereigns, Madame! What did they do for Louis XVI, for the Queen, for Madame Elisabeth? Nothing!” he went on spiritedly. “And, believe me, they are reaping the reward of their treason to the Bourbon cause. The sovereigns? They are sending their ambassadors to congratulate the usurper.” And, sighing disdainfully, he once more shifted his position.
Prince Ippolit, who for some time had been staring at the Viscount through his lorgnette, at these words suddenly turned completely around to the little Princess, asked her for a needle, and began tracing the Condé coat of arms on the table and explaining it to her with such gravity that one would have thought she had asked him about it.
“A staff gules, engrailed with azure gules—the house of Condé,” he said.
The Princess listened, smiling.
“If Bonaparte remains on the throne of France another year,” resumed the Viscount with the air of a man who listens to no one, but, in matters where he is better informed than anyone else, follows his own train of thought, “things will have gone too far. With all the intrigue, coercion, banishment, and executions, I foresee that good society—good French society—will have been destroyed forever, and then——” He shrugged his shoulders and threw up his hands in a gesture of resignation.
Pierre was about to say something, for the conversation interested him, but Anna Pavlovna, who had been keeping her eye on him, interrupted.
“The Emperor Aleksandr,” she said, in the mournful tone that accompanied any reference to the imperial family, “has proclaimed his intention of letting the French people themselves choose their form of government. And I think there is no doubt that once delivered from the usurper the entire nation will throw itself into the arms of its legitimate king,” she concluded, endeavoring to be amiable to  the émigré and royalist.
“That is doubtful,” said Prince Andrei. “Monsieur le vicomte is quite right in supposing that matters have gone too far. I think it will be difficult to return to the old regime.”
“From what I have heard,” said Pierre, blushing as he again broke into the conversation, “almost all the nobility has already gone over to the side of Bonaparte.”
“It’s the Bonapartists who say that,” the Viscount retorted without looking at Pierre. “At the present time it is not easy to determine public opinion in France.”
“That was said by Bonaparte,” Prince Andrei remarked with an ironic smile.
It was evident that he did not like the Viscount, and, without looking at him, was directing his remarks to him.
“‘I showed them the path of glory,’” he said after a pause, again quoting Napoleon, “‘but they would not take it; I opened my antechambers to them and the crowds came rushing in.’ I do not know to what degree he was justified in saying that.”
“None,” the Viscount countered. “After the assassination of the Duke, even the warmest partisans ceased to regard him as a hero. If to some people he had once been a hero,” he said, turning to Anna Pavlovna, “since the assassination of the Duke, there has been one more martyr in heaven and one less hero on earth.”
Anna Pavlovna and the others hardly had time to smile in appreciation of the Viscount’s remark when Pierre again broke into the conversation, and although Anna Pavlovna felt certain he would say something unseemly, she was unable to stop him.
“The execution of the Duke of Enghien,” said Pierre, “was a political necessity, and it is precisely in his not fearing to take upon himself the entire responsibility for this act that I see Napoleon’s grandeur of soul.”
“Dieu! Mon Dieu!” exclaimed Anna Pavlovna in a horrified whisper.
“What, Monsieur Pierre—you find grandeur of soul in an assassination?” asked the little Princess, smiling and drawing her work nearer to her.
“Oh’s!”…“Ah’s!” were heard from several others.
“Capital!” declared Prince Ippolit in English, slapping his knee.
The Viscount merely shrugged his shoulders. Pierre peered solemnly over his spectacles at his listeners.
“The reason I say this,” he went on rashly, “is that the Bourbons fled from the Revolution, leaving the people to anarchy; Napoleon alone was capable of understanding the Revolution, and of subduing it; consequently, he could not scruple at the life of one man, when it was a question of the general good.”
“Wouldn’t you like to come over to the other table?” asked Anna Pavlovna.
Pierre, not heeding her, went on with his speech.
“Yes,” he cried, growing more and more inspired, “Napoleon is great because he rose above the Revolution, suppressing its abuses and retaining all that was good—equality of citizenship, freedom of speech and of the press—and it is for this alone that he assumed power.”
“Yes, if, when he had seized power, he had restored it to the lawful king, instead of using it to commit murder,” said the Viscount, “then I should have called him a great man.”
“He could not have done that. The people gave him power only so that he might rid them of the Bourbons, and because they saw in him a great man. The Revolution was a grand thing,” Pierre continued, betraying by this rash and provocative statement his extreme youth and his desire to express all that was in his mind as quickly as possible.
“Revolution and regicide a grand thing? Well, after that—— But wouldn’t you like to move to this other table?” Anna Pavlovna repeated.
“Contrat Social,” said the Viscount with a bland smile.
“I’m not talking about regicide; I’m talking about ideas.”
“Yes, ideas of plunder, murder, and regicide,” the ironical voice again interrupted.
“Those were excesses, to be sure, but that’s not what’s important; what’s important is the rights of man, emancipation from prejudice, equality of citizenship, and all these Napoleon has retained in full force.”
“Liberty and equality,” said the Viscount contemptuously, as if at last he had decided seriously to prove to this youth the folly of his assertions, “—high-sounding words, which have long been discredited. Who does not love liberty and equality? Even our Savior preached liberty and equality. Have people grown any happier since the Revolution? On the contrary. We wanted liberty, but Bonaparte has destroyed it.”
Prince Andrei watched Pierre with a smile, glancing now at the Viscount, now at their hostess. In the first moment of Pierre’s outburst Anna Pavlovna, despite her social experience, was horrified, but when she saw that even his profane utterances failed to anger the Viscount, and had convinced herself that it was no longer possible to suppress them, she rallied her forces and joined the Viscount in attacking him.
“But my dear Monsieur Pierre,” she said, “how can you account for a great man who is capable of executing a duke, or even an ordinary person, for that matter, without cause and without trial?”
“I should like to ask Monsieur how he explains the Eighteenth Brumaire,” said the Viscount. “Was that not a hoax? It was an act of trickery in no way resembling the conduct of a great man.”
“And the prisoners he killed in Africa! That was dreadful!” said the little Princess with a shudder.
“He’s a plebeian, say what you will,” remarked Prince Ippolit.
Pierre, not knowing whom to answer, looked from one to another and smiled. His smile was quite unlike the halfhearted smile of most people. When he smiled, his serious, rather morose expression instantly vanished and was replaced by a kind, childlike, and even somewhat foolish look that seemed to ask forgiveness.
To the Viscount, who was seeing him for the first time, it became clear that this young Jacobin was by no means so formidable as his words.
Everyone was silent.
“How do you expect him to answer you all at once?” asked Prince Andrei. “Besides, in the actions of a statesman one must distinguish between his acts as a private person and those as a general or an emperor. So it seems to me.”
“Yes, yes, of course!” Pierre put in, delighted at this show of support.
“One must admit,” continued Prince Andrei, “that Napoleon as a man was great at the bridge of Arcole, and in the hospital at Jaffa, where he gave his hand to the plague-stricken, but…but there are other acts that are not easy to justify.”
Prince Andrei, apparently wanting to mitigate the awkwardness of Pierre’s remarks, rose and made a sign to his wife that it was time to go.
*  *  *
Suddenly Prince Ippolit stood up, waving his hands to stop everyone, and invited them to sit down again and listen.
“Ah,” he began. “I heard a charming Moscow anecdote today—I must tell it to you. You will excuse me, vicomte, but I’ll have to tell it in Russian, otherwise the point of the story will be lost.”
And Prince Ippolit commenced speaking the kind of Russian a Frenchman might speak after spending a year in Russia. Everyone waited, so eagerly and assertively had he demanded attention for his story.
“In Moscow there lives a certain lady, une dame. And this lady is very stingy. And she wanted to have two valets de pied standing behind her carriage. Very tall ones. That was her taste. And she had a femme de chambre, also very tall. She said——”
Here Prince Ippolit paused, apparently collecting his thoughts with difficulty.
“She said—— Oh, yes, she said: ‘Girl (to the femme de chambre), put on a livrée and get up behind the carriage and come with me while I faire des visites.”
At this point Prince Ippolit snickered and broke into a guffaw long before anyone else laughed, which produced a rather unfortunate impression on his listeners. Nevertheless, several of them, including Anna Pavlovna and the elderly lady, smiled.
“She drove off. Unexpectedly a strong wind came up. The girl lost her hat, her  long hair fell down——” No longer able to contain himself, he went on through loud gusts of laughter: “And the whole town heard about it…”
And with this the story ended. Although both his reason for telling it, and for telling it in Russian, were incomprehensible, Anna Pavlovna and the others appreciated Prince Ippolit’s tact in so agreeably putting an end to Pierre’s unwelcome outburst.
After the telling of the anecdote, conversation dwindled into insignificant small talk about the last ball and the next, the theater, and about where and when who would meet whom. 
Having thanked Anna Pavlovna for her charmante soirée, the guests began to take their leave.
Pierre was awkward; above average height, broad and stout, with huge red hands, he did not know how to enter a drawing room, as they say, and still less how to leave one, that is, how to say something particularly agreeable before going. Moreover he was absentminded. Now when he got up to go he picked up a general’s three-cornered hat instead of his own and stood there plucking at the plume till the general asked him to return it. But all his absentmindedness and clumsiness in entering a drawing room and making conversation was redeemed by his kindhearted, simple, modest expression. Anna Pavlovna turned to him, and with a Christian meekness that showed her forgiveness of his indiscretion, nodded and said:
“I hope to see you again, and I also hope you will change your opinions, my dear Monsieur Pierre.”
He bowed without replying, and again they saw a smile that seemed to say: “Opinions or no opinions, you see what a fine, good-hearted fellow I am.” And everyone, including Anna Pavlovna, instinctively felt that this was true.
Prince Andrei went out into the hall, and, turning his shoulders to the footman holding his cloak, listened indifferently to the chatter of his wife and Prince Ippolit, who had followed them. Prince Ippolit stood close to the pretty little pregnant Princess, staring fixedly at her through his lorgnette.
“Go in, Annette, or you will catch cold,” said the little Princess, taking leave of Anna Pavlovna. “It’s all settled,” she added in a low voice.
Anna Pavlovna had already managed to discuss the match she hoped to arrange between Anatol and the little Princess’s sister-in-law.
“I rely on you, my dear,” said Anna Pavlovna, also in an undertone. “Write to her, and let me know how her father regards the matter. Au revoir,” and she left the hall.
Prince Ippolit went up to the little Princess and, bending down close to her face, commenced whispering something.
Two footmen, the Princess’s and his own, stood waiting for them to finish talking, one holding a shawl, the other a redingote, and both listening to the incomprehensible French with an air of understanding what was being said but not wanting to show it. The Princess, as always, smiled as she talked and listened laughingly.
“I am very glad I didn’t go to the Ambassador’s,” said Prince Ippolit. “Such a bore…. It’s been a delightful evening. Don’t you think it’s been delightful?”
“They say the ball will be very fine,” replied the Princess, her downy little lip drawn up. “All the most beautiful women in society will be there.”
“Not all—you won’t be there—not all,” said Prince Ippolit, laughing gleefully as he snatched the shawl from the footman, whom he pushed aside so he could wrap it around her himself. Either from awkwardness or intentionally (no one could have said which), he left his arms around her after the shawl had been put on, as if holding her in his embrace.
Still smiling, she gracefully moved away, then turned and glanced at her husband. Prince Andrei’s eyes were closed, so weary and drowsy did he seem.
“Are you ready?” he asked his wife, looking past her.
Prince Ippolit hurriedly put on his redingote, which, in the latest fashion, reached to his heels, and, tripping over it, ran out to the porch after the little Princess, whom a footman was helping into the carriage.
“Princesse, au revoir!” he cried, his tongue as entangled as his feet.
The Princess picked up her skirts and was about to enter the dark carriage; her husband was adjusting his saber, and Prince Ippolit, on the pretext of helping, got in everyone’s way.
“Al-low me, sir,” said Prince Andrei austerely and in Russian, addressing Prince Ippolit, who was blocking his way. “I shall expect you, Pierre.” The same voice sounded cordial and affectionate.
The position gave the signal and the carriage set off with a rattle of wheels. Prince Ippolit stood on the steps laughing spasmodically, as he waited for the Viscount, whom he had promised to take home.
*  *  *
“Eh bien, mon cher, your little Princess is very nice, very nice,” said the Viscount, after seating himself beside Ippolit in the carriage, “very nice, indeed!” He kissed the tips of his fingers. “And quite French!”
Ippolit snickered and burst out laughing.
“And, you know, you’re a terrible fellow with that innocent way of yours,” continued the Viscount. “I pity the poor husband, that little officer who gives himself the airs of a reigning prince.”
Ippolit snickered once more, and through his laughter retorted:
“And you said our Russian ladies couldn’t compare with your French ladies. One must know how to tackle them.”
*  *  *
Pierre arrived before the others, and being quite at home went straight to Prince Andrei’s study, lay down on the sofa as was his habit, took from the shelf the first book that came to hand (it was Caesar’s Commentaries), and, propping his head on his elbow, commenced reading it from the middle.
“What have you done to Mademoiselle Scherer? Now she will really be ill,” said Prince Andrei, rubbing his small white hands as he came into the study.
Pierre rolled over on the sofa, making it creak, and, lifting his eager face to Prince Andrei, dismissed the question with a smile and a wave of the hand.
“You know, that Abbé is very interesting, but he doesn’t see the thing in the right light. In my opinion a permanent peace is possible, but—I don’t know how to put it—but not by means of a balance of power.”
Prince Andrei was obviously not interested in these abstract questions.
“It is not possible, mon cher, to go about saying all that one thinks. Now then, have you at last decided on something? Are you going into the Horse Guards or do you intend to become a diplomat?” asked Prince Andrei, after a momentary silence.
Pierre sat up on the sofa, his legs crossed under him.
“Would you believe it, I still don’t know. Neither one appeals to me.”
“But you have to decide on something, don’t you? Your father is expecting it.”
At the age of ten Pierre had been sent abroad with an abbé as tutor, and had remained there till he was twenty. When he returned to Moscow, his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man: “Now go to Petersburg, look around, and choose a career. I will agree to anything. Here is a letter to Prince Vasily, and here is money. Write me about everything and I will help you in every way.” For three months Pierre had been trying to decide on a career, but had done nothing. It was about this choice that Prince Andrei was speaking. Pierre rubbed his forehead.
“He’s probably a Freemason,” he said, referring to the Abbé he had met that evening.
“That’s all nonsense,” said Prince Andrei, again interrupting him. “Let’s talk about serious matters. Have you been to the Horse Guards?”
“No, I haven’t, but here’s what has occurred to me—I wanted to talk to you about it. Now this war is against Napoleon. If it were a war for freedom I could understand it, and I should be the first to go into the army; but to help England and Austria against the greatest man in the world—that is wrong.”
Prince Andrei merely shrugged his shoulders at Pierre’s childish statement. He looked as though he found it impossible to reply to such foolishness; and, indeed, it would have been difficult to make any other response than the one Prince Andrei made to this naive remark. 
“If everyone fought only for his own convictions, there would be no wars,” he said.
“And what a splendid thing that would be!” Pierre responded.
Prince Andrei smiled ironically.
“Very possibly it would be splendid, but it will never be….”
“And why are you going to war?” asked Pierre.
“Why? I don’t know. Because I must. And besides, I’m going—” He paused. “I’m going because this life I am leading here—this life is—not to my taste.” 
The rustle of a woman’s dress was heard in the next room. Prince Andrei shook himself as if coming out of sleep and his face took on the same expression it had worn in Anna Pavlovna’s drawing room. Pierre removed his feet from the sofa. The Princess came in. She had changed her dress and was wearing something less formal, but equally fresh and elegant. Prince Andrei stood up and politely placed a chair for her.
“I often wonder,” she began, speaking in French as always, and briskly and fussily settling herself in the easy chair, “why Annette has never married. How stupid all you men are not to have married her. Forgive me for saying so, but you have no sense about women. What an argumentative fellow you are, Monsieur Pierre!”
“I am still arguing with your husband. I can’t understand why he wants to go to war,” said Pierre, with none of the restraint common to young men in the presence of a young woman.
The Princess started. Evidently Pierre’s words touched her to the quick.
“Ah, that’s exactly what I say! I don’t understand it, I simply do not understand why men can’t get along without war. How is it we women don’t want such a thing, have no need for it? Now, you shall be the judge. I keep telling him: here he is Uncle’s aide-de-camp—a most brilliant position. He is so well known, so highly esteemed. The other day at the Apraksins’ I heard a lady asking: ‘Is that the famous Prince Andrei?’ On my word of honor!” She laughed. “That’s how he is received everywhere. He might easily become an aide-de-camp to the Emperor. You know the Emperor spoke most graciously to him. Annette and I were talking about how easily it might be arranged. What do you think?”
Pierre glanced at Prince Andrei, and, observing that the conversation was displeasing to him, made no reply.
“When are you leaving?” he asked.
“Oh, don’t talk of his going, don’t even mention it! I won’t hear it spoken of!” exclaimed the Princess in the same playfully capricious tone she had used with Ippolit at the soirée, and which was plainly ill-suited to the family circle in which Pierre was virtually a member. “Today when I thought of all these precious associations being broken off—— And then, you know, Andrei—” she turned to her husband with a significant look, “I’m afraid, I’m afraid,” she whispered, and a shudder ran down her spine.
Her husband looked at her as if surprised to notice someone besides Pierre and himself in the room, and with icy courtesy inquired:
“What are you afraid of, Lisa? I don’t understand.”
“You see what egotists men are—all of them, all egotists! Just because of some whim of his—goodness knows why—he deserts me, shuts me up alone in the country.”
“With my father and sister, don’t forget,” said Prince Andrei softly.
“Alone, all the same, without my friends…. And he expects me not to be afraid.”
Her tone was querulous, and her raised lip now gave her face not a joyous, but a bestial squirrellike expression. She fell silent, as if finding it indelicate to speak of her condition before Pierre, since this was, in essence, what they were talking about.
“I still do not know what it is you are afraid of,” Prince Andrei repeated in an even tone, not taking his eyes from his wife’s face.
The Princess blushed and threw up her hands in despair.
“Oh, Andrei, how you have changed, how you have changed….”
“Your doctor recommends that you retire earlier,” said Prince Andrei. “You had better go to bed.”
The Princess said nothing, but all at once her short, downy lip began to quiver. Prince Andrei shrugged his shoulders, got up, and commenced walking about the room.
Pierre peered through his spectacles with naive surprise, looking first at the Prince, then at his wife; he stirred uneasily, as if he too meant to get up but changed his mind.
“Why should I mind Monsieur Pierre being here?” the little Princess suddenly exclaimed, her pretty face crumpling into a tearful grimace. “I have wanted to ask you for a long time, Andrei: why have you changed so toward me? What have I done? You are going away to war, and you feel no pity for me—Why?”
“Lisa!” was all Prince Andrei said, but in that one word there was an entreaty, a threat, and above all the assurance that she would regret her words.
“You treat me like an invalid or a child,” she went on hurriedly. “I see it all. You weren’t like this six months ago, were you?”
“Lisa, I beg you to desist,” said Prince Andrei, still more explicitly.
Pierre, who had been growing more and more agitated during this conversation, stood up and went to the Princess. He seemed unable to bear the sight of tears and was ready to cry himself.
“Don’t upset yourself, Princess. It appears this way to you because—I assure you, I myself have experienced—— The reason is—it’s because of—— No, excuse me, an outsider is in the way here. No, don’t distress yourself…. Good-bye.”
Prince Andrei caught him by the hand.
“No, wait, Pierre. The Princess is so kind, she would not wish to deprive me of the pleasure of spending the evening with you.”
“Oh, he thinks only of himself!” cried the Princess, unable to restrain tears of anger.
“Lisa!” said Prince Andrei, raising his voice to a pitch that showed his patience was exhausted.
Suddenly the angry, squirrellike expression on the Princess’s pretty little face changed to an appealing, piteous look of fear. Her beautiful eyes glanced mistrustfully at her husband and on her face there appeared the timorous, contrite expression one sees in a dog when it rapidly but feebly wags its drooping tail.
“Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu!” she muttered, and picking up her skirts with one hand she went up to her husband and kissed him on the forehead.
“Bon soir, Lisa,” he said, rising and politely kissing her hand as if she were a stranger.
*  *  *
The friends did not speak. Neither of them felt like breaking the silence. From time to time Pierre glanced at Prince Andrei; Prince Andrei kept rubbing his forehead with his small hand.
“Let us go and have supper,” he said with a sigh, getting up and going to the door.
They went into the elegant dining room, which had been newly and opulently decorated. Everything from the table napkins to the silver, china, and crystal bore that imprint of newness peculiar to the households of recently married couples. Halfway through supper, like a man who has long borne something in his heart and suddenly decides to speak out, Prince Andrei leaned his elbows on the table, and, with an expression of nervous irritation that Pierre had never seen on his friend’s face before, began to talk.
“Never, never marry, my friend! That is my advice to you: never marry till you can say to yourself that you have done all you are capable of doing, and till you have ceased loving the woman you have chosen and can see her clearly, or you will make a cruel and irrevocable mistake. Marry when you are old and no longer good for anything, otherwise all that is fine and noble in you will be lost—all wasted on trifles. Yes, yes, yes! Don’t look at me with such surprise. If you expect anything of yourself in the future, you will feel at every step that all is over, all is closed to you except the drawing room, where you will be on the level of a court lackey and an idiot…. Well, what more is there to say?” He made a vigorous  gesture of dismissal.
Pierre took off his spectacles, which changed his face, making it look even more kindhearted; he gazed at his friend in astonishment.
“My wife,” Prince Andrei continued, “is an excellent woman, one of those rare women with whom a man’s honor is secure, but, my God, what wouldn’t I give not to be married now! You are the first and only one to whom I have said this, because I like you.”
As he talked, Prince Andrei became less and less like the Bolkonsky who had been lolling in Anna Pavlovna’s easy chairs with half-closed eyes, and murmuring French phrases through half-closed lips. Every muscle of his drawn face quivered with nervous energy; his eyes, in which the fire of life then seemed to have been extinguished, now flashed with a brilliant, radiant light. Apparently the more lifeless he seemed at ordinary times, the more forceful he became in moments of irritation.
“You don’t understand why I say this,” he continued, “but, you see, this is the whole story of life. You talk of Bonaparte and his career,” he said, though Pierre had not mentioned Bonaparte, “you talk of Bonaparte—why, when he was working toward his goal, he went forward step by step; he was free; he had nothing except his goal to consider, and he attained it. But tie yourself to a woman and you’re bound hand and foot—all freedom gone. And all the hope and strength you have within you only weighs you down, tortures you with regret. Drawing rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, frivolity—there you have the enchanted circle from which I am unable to escape. Now I am going off to war, the greatest war there ever was, and I know nothing, am fit for nothing. Je suis très aimable et très caustique,” continued Prince Andrei, “and at Anna Pavlovna’s everyone listens to me. And that senseless society, without which my wife cannot live, and those women—— If you only knew what all those femmes distinguées, what women in general, are! My father is right. Selfish, vain, obtuse, and petty in everything—that’s what women are when they show themselves in their true colors. Looking at them as they appear in society, you think there is something to them, but there is nothing, nothing, nothing! No, don’t marry, my dear fellow, don’t marry!” said Prince Andrei in conclusion.
“It seems to me preposterous that you—you should consider yourself incompetent, and your life ruined. You have everything before you, everything. And you——”
He did not finish the sentence, but his tone conveyed how highly he valued his friend, and how much he expected of him in the future.
“How can he talk like that?” Pierre wondered. Precisely because Prince Andrei embodied all those qualities that he himself lacked, and which might best be summed up as will power, Pierre regarded him as the model of perfection. He was always amazed at Prince Andrei’s easy demeanor with people in every walk of life, his extraordinary memory, his erudition (he had read everything, knew everything, had an opinion on everything), and above all at his capacity for work and study. And if he was often struck by Andrei’s incapacity for the sort of speculative philosophizing to which he himself was particularly addicted, he considered it not so much a defect as a sign of strength.
Even in the best, the simplest, and most friendly relations, flattery and praise are as necessary as the oiling of wheels to keep them running smoothly.
“I’m done for,” said Prince Andrei. “Why talk about me? Let us talk about you,” he resumed after a momentary silence, smiling at his own reassuring thoughts.
His smile was instantly reflected on Pierre’s face.
“What’s there to say about me?” Pierre said, his lips parting in a carefree, merry smile. “I am a bastard!” And he suddenly blushed crimson: it had obviously required a great effort for him to say this. “Without name or fortune. And it really is——” But he did not say what it really was. “For the present I am free, and I’m all right. Only I have no idea what to take up. I wanted seriously to consult you.”
Prince Andrei looked at him with kindly eyes, but his glance, friendly and affectionate as it was, expressed a consciousness of his own superiority.
“I am very fond of you, especially as you are the one live person in our entire circle. Yes, you are all right. Choose what you will, it’s all the same. You will be all right anywhere. But there’s just one thing: give up seeing those Kuragins, and leading that sort of life. It doesn’t suit you—that dissipation and debauchery, and all the rest…”
“Que voulez-vous, mon cher?” said Pierre, shrugging his shoulders. “Les femmes, mon cher, les femmes!”
“I do not understand,” rejoined Prince Andrei. “Les femmes comme il faut, that’s another matter; but the women Kuragin consorts with—wine and women—that I do not understand!”
Pierre had been living at Prince Vasily Kuragin’s and participating in the dissolute life of his son Anatol, whom they were planning to reform by arranging a marriage with Prince Andrei’s sister.
“Do you know what?” Pierre began, as if suddenly struck by a happy thought. “Seriously, I’ve been thinking that for a long time. This sort of life makes it impossible to consider anything, to arrive at a decision. My head aches, my money’s all gone—— He invited me again for tonight, but I won’t go.”
“Will you give me your word of honor you’ll give up going?”
“My word of honor!”
It was past one o’clock by the time Pierre left his friend, and was one of those luminous June nights in Petersburg. He took a cab, intending to go straight home, but the nearer he got to the house, the more impossible he felt it would be to sleep on such a night; it was more like early evening or morning, light enough to see a great distance in the deserted streets. On the way, Pierre remembered that Anatol Kuragin was expecting his friends for cards that evening, after which there would be the usual drinking bout, ending in one of Pierre’s favorite diversions.
“It would be pleasant to go to Kuragin’s,” he thought.
He recalled his promise to Prince Andrei not to go there again, and immediately, as happens with people who, as they say, lack strength of character, he felt such a passionate desire to indulge once more in the debauchery to which he was now quite accustomed, that he decided to go. And it occurred to him that his promise to Prince Andrei was of no consequence because he had earlier promised Prince Anatol that he would come; and for that matter, he thought, all these words of honor are mere conventions, having no definite meaning, especially if one considers that one may be dead by tomorrow, or something so extraordinary might happen that there would no longer be any question of honor or dishonor. This sort of reasoning, which nullified all intentions and decisions, was not infrequent with Pierre. He went to Kuragin’s.
When he reached the large house in which Kuragin lived, near the Horse Guards caserne, he went up the steps leading to the lighted porch and entered the house by an open door. There was no one in the hall; empty bottles, cloaks, and overshoes were strewn about; there was the smell of wine and the sound of voices talking and shouting in the distance.
Cards and supper were over, but the guests had not yet departed. Pierre threw off his cloak and went into the first room, where the remains of supper were still on the table and a solitary footman, thinking no one could see him, was furtively drinking what was left in the glasses. In the next room there was an uproar: the shouting of familiar voices, boisterous laughter, and the growling of a bear. Some eight or nine young men were eagerly crowding around an open window. Three others were romping with a young bear, one pulling him by a chain and trying to frighten the others.
“I bet a hundred on Stevens!” cried one.
“No holding on!” shouted another.
“I bet on Dolokhov!” a third called out. “You witness the bet, Kuragin!”
“Come, leave off there with Bruin, there’s a bet on!”
“In one draft, or he loses.”
“Yakov, bring a bottle! Yakov!” shouted the host, a tall handsome young man standing in the midst of the group, without a coat, his fine linen shirt open over his chest. “Wait, gentlemen. Here he is—Petrushka, my dear fellow!” he called to Pierre.
Another voice, conspicuous for its sobriety among all these drunken voices, came from a man of medium height with clear blue eyes.
“Come here, witness the bets!” he shouted from the window. 
This was Dolokhov, an officer of the Semyonovsky regiment, a notorious gambler and duelist, who was living at Anatol’s. Pierre looked around the room with a jovial smile. “I don’t understand. What’s it all about?”
“Wait, he’s not drunk yet. Bring a bottle,” said Anatol, taking a glass from the table and going up to Pierre.
“First of all, drink!”
Pierre commenced drinking one glass after another, surveying from under his eyebrows the drunken guests and listening to their babble, as they again crowded around the window. Anatol kept refilling his glass, while explaining that Dolokhov had bet the English naval officer Stevens that he could drink a bottle of rum sitting on the third-floor window ledge with his legs hanging out.
“Go on, drink it all,” said Anatol, emptying the bottle into Pierre’s glass, “or I won’t let you go!”
“No, I don’t want to,” said Pierre, pushing Anatol aside and going to the window.
Dolokhov, holding the Englishman by the hand, was distinctly and precisely repeating the terms of the bet, addressing himself chiefly to Anatol and Pierre.
Dolokhov was a man of medium height with curly hair and lucent blue eyes. He was about twenty-five. Like all infantry officers, he had no moustache, so that his mouth, the most striking feature of his face, was clearly visible. The lines of that mouth were chiseled with remarkable delicacy. The wedge-shaped middle of the upper lip closed decisively over the firm lower lip, and something like two distinct smiles played continuously at the corners of his mouth; this, together with the mettlesome, insolent, intelligent look in his eyes, created such an impression that it was impossible not to notice that face. Dolokhov was a man of small means and no connections, and despite the fact that Anatol spent tens of thousands, Dolokhov managed to live with him on such a footing that everyone who knew them both had more respect for him—including Anatol himself. Dolokhov played every sort of game and nearly always won. And however much he drank he remained clearheaded. In the Petersburg world of rakes and prodigals they were both notorious at that time.
The bottle of rum was brought; the window frame, which prevented anyone from sitting on the outer ledge, was being torn out by two footmen, urged on and intimidated by the directions shouted at them.
Anatol, with his swaggering air, strode over to the window. He felt like breaking something. Thrusting the footmen aside, he tugged at the sash, but it would not yield. He smashed a windowpane.
“You try it, Samson,” he said, turning to Pierre.
Pierre took hold of the crosspiece, pulled, and ripped out the oak frame with a crash.
“All out—or they’ll think I’m holding on,” said Dolokhov.
“So the Englishman’s been bragging, eh?…All right?” asked Anatol.
“All right,” said Pierre, looking at Dolokhov, who had picked up the bottle of rum and was going to the window, from which the light of the sky, a mingling of twilight and dawn, could be seen.
Dolokhov, the bottle of rum in his hand, jumped onto the windowsill.
“Listen!” he shouted, standing on the windowsill facing the room.
Everyone stopped talking.
“I bet,” he spoke in French so the Englishman could understand him, but spoke it none too well, “I bet fifty imperials—or do you want to make it a hundred?” he added, addressing the Englishman.
“No, fifty,” said the Englishman.
“All right, fifty imperials—that I will drink a whole bottle of rum without taking the bottle from my mouth, and will drink it sitting outside the window, here, on this spot (he bent down and pointed to the sloping ledge outside the window), without holding on to anything…. Is that right?”
“Quite right,” said the Englishman.
Anatol turned to the Englishman and, taking him by the coat button and looking down at him (the Englishman was short), repeated the terms of the wager in English.
“Wait!” shouted Dolokhov, rapping the bottle against the side of the window to get attention. “Wait, Kuragin! Listen! If anyone else does the same, I’ll pay a hundred. Understand?”
The Englishman nodded without indicating whether or not he intended to accept this new wager. Anatol did not release him, however, and, despite the fact that he kept nodding to show that he understood, translated what Dolokhov had said into English.
A slim youth, a hussar in the Life Guards who had been losing all evening, climbed onto the windowsill, put his head out, and looked down.
“Oh-oo-oh!” he breathed, peering down at the stone pavement.
“Shut up!” cried Dolokhov, pushing him off the windowsill so that he tripped over his spurs as he jumped awkwardly into the room.
Placing the bottle on the windowsill where it would be within reach, Dolokhov slowly and cautiously crawled through the window. He sat down, lowered his legs, and with his hands pressed against the sides of the window adjusted his position, moving a little to the right, then to the left, before dropping his hands and reaching for the bottle. Anatol brought two candles and set them on the windowsill, though it was already quite light. Dolokhov’s back in his white shirt, and his curly head, were lit up from both sides. Everyone crowded around the window, the Englishman in front. Pierre smiled but said nothing. One man, older than the others, stepped forward with a frightened, angry expression on his face and was about to seize Dolokhov by the shirt.
“Gentlemen, this is preposterous!” exclaimed this somewhat more sensible man. “He’ll kill himself!”
Anatol stopped him.
“Don’t touch him! If you startle him, he will kill himself. And what then?…Eh?”
Dolokhov looked round, then, holding on with both hands, settled himself once more.
“If anyone interferes again,” he said, spacing his words and forcing them through his thin, compressed lips, “I’ll throw him down there instantly. Now then!”
And with these words he turned back, lowered his hands, took the bottle and lifted it to his lips, then threw back his head and raised his free hand to balance himself. One of the footmen, who had bent down to pick up the broken glass, remained in that position without taking his eyes from the window and Dolokhov’s back. Anatol stood erect and wide-eyed. The Englishman looked on from the side with pursed lips. The man who had wanted to stop the affair fled to a corner of the room and threw himself on a sofa, his face to the wall. Pierre covered his eyes, but a faint smile, like something that had been left behind, remained on his face, though it now expressed fear and horror. No one spoke. Pierre took his hand from his eyes. Dolokhov still sat in the same position, but his head was thrown so far back that his curly hair touched his shirt collar and the hand holding the bottle rose higher and higher, trembling with the strain. As the bottle went up and his head bent farther back, the bottle was visibly emptying.
“Why does it go on so long?” Pierre wondered. It seemed to him that more than half an hour had elapsed.
Dolokhov made a sudden movement with his back and his hand twitched nervously; this was enough to shift his whole body on the sloping ledge. He began to slip; his head and arm shook still more from the strain. One arm moved as if to clutch the windowsill, then drew back. Pierre again covered his eyes, telling himself he would never open them again. All at once he became aware of everything stirring around him. He looked up. Dolokhov was standing on the windowsill, pale but elated.
“Empty!”
He tossed the bottle to the Englishman, who deftly caught it. Dolokhov jumped down. He smelled strongly of rum.
“Splendid!…Brave lad!…Now there’s a wager for you!…Damned if it isn’t!” came from all sides.
The Englishman took out his purse and counted out the money. Dolokhov knit his brows and did not speak. Pierre jumped up onto the windowsill.
“Gentlemen! Who wants to bet with me! I’ll do the same!” he suddenly shouted. “I’ll even do it without a wager. Tell them to bring me a bottle. I’ll do it. Bring the bottle!” 
“Let him—let him do it!” said Dolokhov with a smile.
“Have you gone mad?…Who would let you?…Just standing on a staircase makes you giddy!” came from several voices at once.
“I’ll drink it down—give me a bottle of rum!” cried Pierre, going to the table and pounding on it with drunken insistence, then climbing back onto the windowsill.
They seized him by the arms, but he was so strong that everyone who came near him was sent flying.
“No, you’ll never manage him that way,” said Anatol. “Wait—I know how to get around him…. Listen!” he cried. “I’ll take you up on it tomorrow, but now we’re all going to ———’s.”
“Come on then!” cried Pierre. “Let’s go! And we’ll take Bruin with us!”
And he caught hold of the bear, took it in his arms, and commenced dancing around the room with it. 
Prince Vasily kept the promise he had made to Princess Drubetskaya, who had appealed to him on behalf of her only son at Anna Pavlovna’s soirée. The matter was laid before the Emperor, an exception made, and Boris was transferred to the Semyonovsky Guards with the rank of ensign. But all Anna Mikhailovna’s efforts and stratagems failed to obtain for him the appointment as adjutant or member of Kutuzov’s staff. Not long after Anna Pavlovna’s soirée, Anna Mikhailovna returned to Moscow and went straight to the home of her rich relations, the Rostovs, with whom she stayed in Moscow, and where her beloved Borenka, who had only just entered a regiment of the line when he was transferred to the Guards as an ensign, had been brought up, having lived there since childhood. The Guards had already left Petersburg on the tenth of August, but her son had remained in Moscow to get his equipment and was to join them on the march to Radzivilov.
The Rostovs were celebrating the name day of the mother and younger daughter, both of whom were called Natalya. Since morning a ceaseless stream of horse carriages had been coming and going, bringing to the Countess Rostov’s big house on Povarskaya Street—a house known to all Moscow—friends wishing to congratulate the two Natalyas. The Countess and her handsome elder daughter were sitting in the drawing room with the visitors, who kept coming one after another.
The Countess was a woman of about forty-five with a thin, Oriental type of face, who looked worn out from childbearing; she had given birth to twelve. Her leisurely speech and movement, which was due to weakness, gave her an air of distinction that inspired respect. As a member of the household, Princess Anna Mikhailovna Drubetskaya was helping to receive and entertain the visitors. The young people, not feeling obliged to be present, were in the back rooms. The Count met the guests, saw them to the door, and invited them all to dinner.
“Very, very grateful to you, ma chère,” or “mon cher,” he said to everyone without exception and without the least variation in his tone, whether they were above or beneath him in rank. “I thank you both for myself and for our dear ones whose name day we are celebrating. Now, mind you come back to dinner. I shall be offended if you don’t, mon cher…. I cordially invite you on behalf of the whole family, ma chère.”
These words were repeated each time with the same expression on his plump, jolly, clean-shaven face, with the same firm pressure of the hand, and several abrupt little bows. As soon as he had seen one visitor to the door, he returned to the drawing room and, with the air of a man who loves life and knows how to live, drew up a chair, jauntily spread his legs, put his hands on his knees, and, gravely swaying to and fro, made conjectures about the weather or volunteered advice on matters of health, sometimes in Russian and sometimes in very bad but self-confident French; then once again like a man who is weary but steadfast in the performance of his duty, he escorted the visitors to the door, and, stroking the sparse gray hairs over his bald spot, again invited them to dinner. Sometimes on his way back from the hall he would go through the conservatory and the butler’s pantry into the large marble dining room where tables were being laid for eighty people, and, looking at the footmen bringing in the china and silver, moving tables and unfolding damask tablecloths, he would summon Dmitri Vasilyevich, a nobleman who looked after all his affairs.
“Now, then, Mitenka, see to it that everything is as it should be. That’s right,” he would say, looking with satisfaction at an enormous table that was being extended to its full length. “The chief thing is the service. That’s it….” And with a complacent sigh he would return to the drawing room.
“Marya Lvovna Karagina and her daughter!” announced the Countess’s gigantic footman in a deep bass from the doorway.
The Countess reflected a moment before taking a pinch of snuff from a gold snuffbox with a portrait of her husband on it.
“These visitors have exhausted me,” she said. “This is the last one I shall see. She’s so terribly affected. Ask her to come in,” she said to the footman in a dejected tone, as if to say: “Well, put me to the rack!”
A tall, stout, haughty-looking woman and her round-faced, smiling daughter entered the room with a rustling of skirts.
“Chère comtesse, it’s been so long!…She has been confined to her bed, poor child…. At the Razumovskys’ ball…And the Countess Apraksina…I was simply delighted….”
Vivacious feminine voices were heard interrupting one another and mingling with the rustling of dresses and the scraping of chairs. And there began one of those conversations that go on in the same way until, at the first pause, the visitors rise, swishing their skirts and saying: “It’s been so delightful…. Maman’s health…And the Countess Apraksina…” And again rustling their skirts they pass into the hall, put on their fur coats or mantles, and leave. The conversation was on the chief topic of the day: the illness of the rich old Count Bezukhov, reputed to have been one of the handsomest men of the Empress Catherine’s time, and his illegitimate son, Pierre, who had behaved so indecorously at Anna Pavlovna’s soirée.
“I am exceedingly sorry for the poor Count,” said one of the visitors. “He was already in poor health, and now this mortification over his son! It will kill him!”
“And what might that be?” asked the Countess, as if ignorant of what her guest was alluding to, though she had heard about the cause of Count Bezukhov’s mortification at least fifteen times that day.
“This is what comes of modern education!” her friend continued. “Even while he was abroad that young man was left to his own devices, and now I hear that he did such atrocious things in Petersburg that he was sent away under police escort.”
“You don’t say so!” remarked the Countess.
“He made a bad choice of friends,” interposed Princess Anna Mikhailovna. “Prince Vasily’s son, he, and a certain Dolokhov, they say, have been up to heaven knows what! But they’ve both been made to smart for it. Dolokhov has been reduced to the ranks, and Bezukhov’s son has been sent to Moscow. In the case of Anatol Kuragin, his father somehow got it hushed up. But even he was sent away from Petersburg.”
“They’re regular ruffians, especially Dolokhov,” said the visitor. “He’s the son of Marya Ivanovna Dolokhova, such a worthy woman, and just see what happens! Can you imagine—those three got hold of a bear somewhere, put it into a carriage, and set off with it to visit some actresses. When the police rushed in to restrain them, they tied one of the policemen back to back to the bear, and threw them into the Moika Canal. And the bear swam off with the policeman on his back.”
“A fine figure that policeman must have cut, ma chère!” roared the Count, almost splitting his sides with laughter.
“Oh, how dreadful! What is there to laugh at, Count?”
But the ladies themselves could not help laughing.
“It was all they could do to rescue the poor man,” the visitor resumed. “That son of Kiril Vladimirovich Bezukhov’s chooses a nice way to amuse himself!” she added. “And he is said to be so well educated and clever. That’s what comes of an education abroad. I hope no one here will receive him, even if he is so wealthy. They wanted to introduce him to me, but I absolutely refused: I have my daughters to think of.”
“What makes you say this young man is so wealthy? The Count’s children are all illegitimate,” said the Countess, turning away from the young girls, who instantly pretended not to be listening. “Pierre too, I believe, is illegitimate.”
“He has a score of them, I suppose,” said the visitor with a wave of her hand.
Princess Anna Mikhailovna broke into the conversation, evidently wanting to show her connections and her knowledge of what went on in society.
“As a matter of fact,” she began in a meaningful half-whisper, “Count Kiril Vladimirovich’s reputation is well known—he’s even lost count of his children. But  this Pierre was his favorite.”
“How handsome the old man still was only a year ago!” observed the Countess. “A handsomer man I have never seen.”
“He’s very much changed now,” said Anna Mikhailovna. “But, as I was saying,” she continued, “through his wife, Prince Vasily is in direct line to inherit the entire estate; however, the Count is very fond of Pierre—took great pains with his education, even wrote the Emperor about him—so no one knows, in case he should die (and he’s so ill they expect it at any minute and have sent for Dr. Lorrain from Petersburg), who will get that immense fortune, Pierre or Prince Vasily. Forty thousand serfs—and millions! I know this quite well, because Prince Vasily himself told me. Besides, Kiril Vladimirovich is my mother’s second cousin. And he’s Borya’s godfather,” she added, as if attaching no importance whatsoever to this fact.
“Prince Vasily arrived in Moscow yesterday,” remarked the visitor. “He’s come to make an inspection of some sort, I am told.”
“Yes, but entre nous,” said the Princess, “that is just a pretext. Actually, he came to see Count Kiril Vladimirovich after hearing how bad he was.”
“Say what you will, ma chère, that was an excellent joke,” said the Count, and seeing that the elder visitor was not listening to him, he turned to the young ladies. “I can just imagine what a fine figure that policeman cut.”
And waving his arms about to show how the policeman must have looked, his portly body again rocked with the deep, resounding laughter of a man who always eats well, and even more certainly, drinks well.
“Now do, please, come and dine with us,” he said. 
A silence fell.
The Countess looked at her guests and smiled affably without, however, concealing the fact that she would not be in the least distressed if they were to get up and take their leave. The visitor’s daughter was already smoothing down her dress and looking at her mother inquiringly when suddenly from the next room were heard the footsteps of boys and girls running to the door, the crash of a chair knocked over, and then a girl of thirteen, hiding something in the folds of her short muslin skirt, darted in and stopped short in the middle of the room. It was obvious that her precipitous flight had carried her farther into the room than she had intended. At the same moment there appeared in the door a student with the crimson collar of an officer of the Guards, a girl of fifteen, and a plump, rosy little boy in a short jacket.
The Count jumped up, held out his arms, and with his swaying gait went forward to take the little girl in his embrace.
“Ah, here she is!” he exclaimed, laughing. “The little name-day girl! My little darling!”
“Ma chère, there is a time for everything,” said the Countess with feigned severity. “You’re always spoiling her, Ilya,” she added to her husband.
“Bonjour, ma chère, je vous félicite,” said the visitor. “Quelle délicieuse enfant!” she added to the mother.
The little girl, not pretty but full of life, with her black eyes and wide mouth, her childish shoulders from which the bodice had slipped in her rapid flight, black curls tossed back, slender bare arms, little legs encased in lace pantaloons and feet in low slippers, was at that charming age when the girl is no longer a child and the child is not yet a young woman. Escaping from her father’s embrace, she ran to her mother and, not paying the least attention to her severe remark, hid her flushed face in her mother’s lace collar and broke into laughter. In fragmentary sentences, still laughing, she tried to explain something about a doll which she produced from the folds of her skirt.
“Do you see?…My doll—Mimi—you see, she——”
But Natasha could say no more: everything seemed funny to her. She sank onto her mother’s lap and went off into such peals of laughter that even the decorous visitor could not help joining in.
“Now run along, and take that little monstrosity with you,” said the mother, pushing her daughter away with feigned severity. “This is my younger daughter,” she added, turning to the visitor.
Natasha raised her head from her mother’s lace collar, looked up at her through tears of laughter, and again hid her face.
The visitor, compelled to admire this domestic scene, saw fit to take part in it.
“Tell me, my dear,” she said to Natasha, “what relation is this Mimi to you? Your daughter, I presume?”
Natasha, not liking the lady’s condescending tone toward her childish concerns, did not reply, but stared solemnly at her.
Meanwhile, the other members of the younger generation—Anna Mikhailovna’s son Boris, an officer, the Count’s elder son Nikolai, a student, his fifteen-year-old niece, Sonya, and his younger son, Petrusha—had all taken seats in the drawing room and were obviously trying to keep within the bounds of decorum the vivacity and merriment that radiated from every feature of their faces. In the back rooms, from which they had dashed so impetuously, the conversation had evidently been more amusing than here, where they had to listen to town gossip, talk of the weather, and the Countess Apraksina. Now and then they exchanged glances, hardly able to restrain their laughter.
The two young men, the student and the officer, had been friends from childhood, and though of the same age and both handsome, were not at all alike. Boris was tall and fair, with delicate, regular features and a look of composure on his handsome face. Nikolai was a short, curly-headed young man with an open expression. Dark hair had already begun to appear on his upper lip, and his whole face expressed impetuosity and enthusiasm. Nikolai blushed when he entered the drawing room; apparently he had tried without success to find something to say. Boris, on the contrary, was instantly at ease; he very coolly and humorously related how he had known this Mimi, the doll, since she was a young girl, before her nose had been broken, how she had aged during the five years he had known her, and now had a badly cracked skull. As he said this he glanced at Natasha. She turned away from him and looked at her younger brother, who had screwed up his eyes and was shaking with silent laughter; unable to control herself any longer, she jumped up and ran from the room as fast as her nimble little legs would carry her. Boris maintained his composure.
“You wanted to go out, I believe, didn’t you, maman?” he asked, turning to his mother with a smile. “Would you like the carriage?”
“Yes, go and tell them to get it ready,” she said, returning his smile.
Boris quietly left the room and went in search of Natasha; the plump little boy ran after them crossly, as if vexed that his pursuits had been interrupted. he only young people left in the drawing room besides the young lady visitor and the Countess’s elder daughter (who was four years older than her sister and behaved quite like a grown-up) were Nikolai and Sonya, the niece. Sonya was a slender, diminutive brunette with melting eyes shadowed by long lashes, a thick black braid wound twice around her head, and a tawny hue to her complexion, especially on her neck and her bare, thin but graceful, muscular arms. Her fluidity of movement, the softness and flexibility of her small limbs, and a certain coyness and reticence of manner made one think of a pretty half-grown kitten that gave promise of becoming a beautiful little cat. She evidently thought it proper to show an interest in the general conversation by smiling, but in spite of herself her eyes under their long thick lashes kept watching her cousin, who was soon to leave for the army, with such passionate, girlish adoration that her smile did not for an instant deceive anyone, and it was obvious that the kitten had settled down only to spring up again more nimbly than ever and start frolicking with her cousin as soon as they too, like Natasha and Boris, could escape from the drawing room.
“Yes, ma chère,” said the Count, addressing his visitor and pointing to Nikolai, “now that his friend Boris has been made an officer, he doesn’t want to stay behind, so for friendship’s sake he is leaving the university and me, his old father: he’s going into military service, ma chère. And he had a place waiting for him in the Archives Department and all. Now, that’s friendship for you, isn’t it?”
“But they say war has been declared,” said the visitor.
“They’ve been saying that for a long time,” replied the Count. “And they’ll say it again and again, and things will remain just as they are…. Ma chère, that’s friendship for you!” he repeated. “He’s joining the hussars.”
The visitor, not knowing what to say, shook her head.
“It’s not out of friendship at all,” said Nikolai, flaring up and defending himself as if from some shameful imputation. “It’s not out of friendship at all—it’s simply that I feel the army is my vocation.”
He glanced at his cousin and the young lady visitor: they were both gazing at him with smiles of approval.
“Schubert, a colonel in the Pavlograd Hussars, is dining with us today. He has been here on leave and is taking Nikolai back with him. What can I do?” said the Count, shrugging his shoulders and making light of a matter that evidently distressed him greatly.
“I have already told you, Papa, that if you’re not willing to let me go, I’ll stay. But I know I’m not suited to anything but the army; I’m no diplomat, no government clerk—I can’t hide what I feel,” he said, continuing to glance at Sonya and the young visitor with the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth.
The kitten, feasting her eyes on him, looked as if she were on the verge of resuming her gambols and displaying her thoroughly kittenish nature.
“All right, all right!” said the old Count. “He always flares up so. This Bonaparte has turned all their heads; they all think of how he rose from a lieutenant to become Emperor. And why not?” he added, not noticing his guest’s derisive smile.
The elders commenced talking about Bonaparte. Julie, Madam Karagina’s daughter, turned to young Rostov.
“What a pity you weren’t at the Arkharovs’ on Thursday. I missed you,” she said, smiling tenderly at him.
Flattered, the young man moved nearer to her and engaged the smiling Julie in a private conversation, quite unaware that his involuntarily flirtatious smile had pierced Sonya’s jealous heart like a knife as she sat blushing and smiling unnaturally. In the midst of the conversation he glanced at her. She gave him a passionately angry look; barely able to restrain her tears and maintain the forced smile on her lips, she got up and left the room. All Nikolai’s animation faded. He waited for the first pause in the conversation and, with a distraught expression, got up and went to look for Sonya.
“How all these young people wear their hearts on their sleeves!” said Anna Mikhailovna, indicating Nikolai as he went out of the room. “Cousinhood is a dangerous neighborhood,” she added in French.
“Yes,” said the Countess, when the ray of sunshine brought into the room by these young people had vanished, and as if answering a question no one had asked her but which was always in her mind. “How much suffering, how much anxiety has been gone through that we might rejoice in them now! And yet, even now the anxiety is greater than the joy. One is always afraid, always afraid! Especially at this age, so full of dangers for both girls and boys.”
“It all depends on the upbringing,” observed the visitor.
“Yes, you are right,” continued the Countess. “So far, thank God, I have always been my children’s friend and have enjoyed their complete confidence,” she said, repeating the fallacy of so many parents who assume that their children have no secrets from them. “I know that I shall always be my daughters’ foremost confidante, and that if Nikolai, with his impetuous nature, does get into mischief (and a boy is sure to), it won’t be like those young men in Petersburg.”
“Yes, they’re splendid, splendid youngsters,” declared the Count, who settled all perplexing questions by deciding that everything was splendid. “Well, it can’t be helped. He’s taken it into his head to be a hussar! So, what can I do, ma chère?”
“What a charming creature your younger daughter is!” said the visitor. “A little spitfire!”
“Yes, a regular little spitfire,” said the Count. “Takes after me. And what a voice! Though she is my daughter, I’m speaking the truth when I say she’ll be a singer, a second Salomoni. We’ve engaged an Italian to give her lessons.”
“Isn’t it too early? They say it harms the voice to begin training it at that age.”
“Too early? Not at all!” said the Count. “Why, didn’t our mothers used to marry at twelve or thirteen?”
“And she’s already in love with Boris! What do you think of that?” said the Countess, glancing at Boris’s mother with a gentle smile and pursuing a thought that was evidently always on her mind. “Now you see, if I were to be severe with her and forbid it—goodness knows what they might be up to in secret (she meant they might be kissing), but as it is, I know every word she utters. She’ll come running to me in the evening and tell me everything of her own accord. Perhaps I spoil her, but I really think it’s better that way. I was stricter with my elder daughter.”
“Yes, I was brought up quite differently,” said the handsome Countess Vera with a smile.
But the smile did not enhance Vera’s beauty, as smiles generally do; on the contrary, it gave her an unnatural, and therefore unpleasant, expression. Vera was pretty, well brought up, a good student, and not at all stupid; she had a pleasant voice, and what she had just said was both apt and true, yet, strange to say, everyone, the visitors and the Countess alike, looked at her as if wondering why she had said it, and they all felt awkward.
“People always try too hard with their first children—they want to make something exceptional of them,” said the visitor.
“We don’t deny it, ma chère! Our little Countess tried too hard with Vera,” said the Count. “But what of it? She’s turned out splendidly,” he added, with a wink of approval at Vera.
The guests got up and took their leave, promising to come back to dinner.
“What manners! I thought they would never go!” said the Countess, after seeing them out. 
When Natasha ran out of the room, she went only as far as the conservatory. There she stopped and stood listening to the conversation in the drawing room, waiting for Boris to come out. She soon grew impatient, stamped her foot, and was on the verge of tears because he had not come at once. When she heard the young man’s discreet footsteps approaching at a moderate pace, she darted in among the tubs of flowering plants and hid there.
Boris hesitated in the middle of the room, looked about, brushed a speck of dust from the sleeve of his uniform, then went up to a mirror and examined his handsome face. Natasha, very still, peered out from her hiding place, waiting to see what he would do. He stood a little while before the glass, smiled at his reflection, and went toward the opposite door. Natasha was about to call him but changed her mind.
“Let him look for me,” she thought.
Hardly had Boris gone when Sonya, flushed and in tears, came in through the other door, muttering angrily under her breath. Natasha controlled her impulse to rush out to her and remained in her hiding place, observing, as from under Fortunatus’s cap, what went on in the world. She was experiencing a novel and peculiar pleasure. Sonya kept glancing back at the drawing room and muttering to herself. The door opened and Nikolai came in.
“Sonya! What’s the matter with you? How could you?” he exclaimed, rushing up to her.
“It’s nothing, it’s nothing! Leave me alone!” she sobbed.
“Oh, I know what it is.”
“Well, if you know, so much the better—you can go back to her.”
“So-o-nya! Listen to me! How can you torture me and yourself because of a mere fantasy?” asked Nikolai, taking her hand.
Sonya did not withdraw her hand and stopped crying.
Natasha, not stirring, scarcely breathing, watched with sparkling eyes.
“What will happen now?” she wondered.
“Sonya, I don’t care about anything else in the whole world! You’re everything to me,” said Nikolai. “I’ll prove it to you.”
“I don’t like it when you talk like that.”
“Well, then I won’t—only forgive me, Sonya.” He drew her to him and kissed her.
“Oh, how lovely!” thought Natasha, and when Nikolai and Sonya had left the conservatory, she followed them and called Boris to her.
“Boris, come here,” she said with a sly, meaningful look. “I have something to tell you. Here, here…” and she led him into the conservatory to the place where she had been hiding among the flower tubs.
“What is this something?” he asked.
She became flustered, looked about, and catching sight of her doll, which she had left lying on one of the tubs, picked it up.
“Kiss the doll,” she said.
Boris gazed at her eager face with an intent, affectionate look, but made no reply.
“Don’t you want to? Then come here,” she said, going farther in among the plants and dropping her doll. “Closer, closer,” she whispered.
She caught the young officer by his cuffs and a look of fear and exultation came over her flushed face.
“Would you like to kiss me?” she asked in a barely audible whisper, peering up at him from under her brows, smiling and almost weeping with excitement.
Boris blushed.
“How funny you are!” he exclaimed, bending down to her and blushing still more, but waiting and doing nothing.
All at once she jumped up onto one of the tubs to be taller than he, and embracing him so that her slender bare arms clasped him above the neck, she tossed back her hair and kissed him full on the lips. Then she slipped down among the flower pots on the other side of the tub and stood waiting with lowered head.
“Natasha, you know I love you, but——”
“Are you in love with me?” Natasha broke in.
“Yes, I am, but—— Please, we mustn’t do that—what you just—— In another four years—then I will ask for your hand.”
Natasha pondered.
“Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen…” she said, counting on her slender little fingers. “All right! Then it’s settled?”
A smile of joy and reassurance lit up her eager face.
“Settled!” replied Boris.
“Forever?” asked the little girl. “Till death itself?”
And with a look of happiness on her face, she took his arm and they walked slowly into the sitting room.















 



