“Eh bien, mon prince, Gênes et Lucques ne sont plus que des apanages, des estates, de la famille Buonaparte. 1 Non, je vous préviens, que si vous ne me dites pas que nous avons la guerre, si vous vous permettez encore de pallier toutes les infamies, toutes les atrocités de cet Antichrist (ma parole, j’y crois)—je ne vous connais plus, vous n’êtes plus mon ami, vous n’êtes plus my faithful slave, comme vous dites. Well, good evening, good evening. Je vois que je vous fais peur, sit down and tell me about it.” *2 So spoke, in July 1805, the renowned Anna Pavlovna Scherer, maid of honor and intimate of the empress Maria Feodorovna, greeting the important and highranking Prince Vassily, the first to arrive at her soirée. Anna Pavlovna had been coughing for several days. She had the grippe, as she put it (grippe was a new word then, used only by rare people). Little notes had been sent out that morning with a red-liveried footman, and on all of them without distinction there was written: Si vous n’avez rien de mieux à faire, Monsieur le comte (or mon prince), et si la perspective de passer la soirée chez une pauvre malade ne vous effraye pas trop, je serai charmée de vous voir chez moi entre 7 et 10 heures. †3 Annette Scherer. “Dieu, quelle virulente sortie!” ‡4 the entering prince replied, not ruffled in the least by such a reception. He was wearing an embroidered court uniform, stockings, shoes, and stars, and had a bright expression on his flat face. He spoke that refined French in which our grandparents not only spoke but thought, and with those quiet, patronizing intonations which are proper to a significant man who has grown old in society and at court. He went over to Anna Pavlovna, kissed her hand, presenting her with his perfumed and shining bald pate, and settled comfortably on the sofa. “Avant tout dites-moi, comment vous allez, chère amie. *5 Set me at ease,” he said, without changing his voice and in a tone in which, through propriety and sympathy, one could discern indifference and even mockery. “How can one be well…when one suffers morally? Is it possible to remain at ease in our time, if one has any feeling?” said Anna Pavlovna. “You’ll stay the whole evening, I hope?” “And the fête at the British ambassador’s? Today is Wednesday. I must put in an appearance,” said the prince. “My daughter will come to fetch me and take me there.” “I thought today’s fête was cancelled. Je vous avoue que toutes ces fêtes et tous ces feux d’artifice commencent à devenir insipides.” †6 “If they had known that you wished it, the fête would have been cancelled,” said the prince, uttering out of habit, like a wound-up clock, things that he did not even wish people to believe. “Ne me tourmentez pas. Eh bien, qu’a-t-on décidé par rapport à la dépêche de Novosilzoff? 2 Vous savez tout.” ‡7 “What can I tell you?” said the prince, in a cold, bored tone. “Qu’a-t-on décidé? On a décidé que Buonaparte a brûlé ses vaisseaux, et je crois que nous sommes en train de brûler les nôtres.” §8 Prince Vassily always spoke lazily, the way an actor speaks a role in an old play. Anna Pavlovna Scherer, on the contrary, despite her forty years, was brimming with animation and impulses. Being an enthusiast had become her social position, and she sometimes became enthusiastic even when she had no wish to, so as not to deceive the expectations of people who knew her. The restrained smile that constantly played on Anna Pavlovna’s face, though it did not suit her outworn features, expressed, as it does in spoiled children, a constant awareness of her dear shortcoming, which she did not wish, could not, and found no need to correct. In the midst of a conversation about political doings, Anna Pavlovna waxed vehement. “Ah, don’t speak to me of Austria! Maybe I don’t understand anything, but Austria does not want and has never wanted war. She’s betraying us. 3 Russia alone must be the savior of Europe. Our benefactor knows his lofty calling and will be faithful to it. That is the one thing I trust in. Our kind and wonderful sovereign is faced with the greatest role in the world, and he is so virtuous and good that God will not abandon him, and he will fulfill his calling to crush the hydra of revolution, which has now become still more terrible in the person of this murderer and villain. We alone must redeem the blood of the righteous one. 4 In whom can we trust, I ask you?…England with her commercial spirit will not and cannot understand all the loftiness of the emperor Alexander’s soul. She refused to evacuate Malta. 5 She wants to see, she searches for ulterior motives in our acts. What did they say to Novosiltsov? Nothing. They did not, they could not understand the self-denial of our emperor, who wants nothing for himself and everything for the good of the world. And what have they promised? Nothing. And what they did promise will not be done! Prussia has already declared that Bonaparte is invincible and that all Europe can do nothing against him…And I don’t believe a single word of Hardenberg or of Haugwitz. 6 Cette fameuse neutralité prussienne, ce n’est qu’un piège. *9 I trust only in God and in the lofty destiny of our dear emperor. He will save Europe!…” She suddenly stopped with a mocking smile at her own vehemence. “I think,” the prince said, smiling, “that if they sent you instead of our dear Wintzingerode, you would take the Prussian king’s consent by storm. 7 You’re so eloquent! Will you give me tea?” “At once. À propos,” she added, calming down again, “I’ll have two very interesting men here tonight, le vicomte de Mortemart, il est allié aux Montmorency par les Rohan, †10 one of the best French families. He’s one of the good émigrés, 8 one of the real ones. And then l’abbé Morio ‡11 —do you know that profound mind? He’s been received by the sovereign. Do you know him?” “Ah! I’ll be very glad,” said the prince. “Tell me,” he added, as if just recalling something and with special casualness, though what he asked about was the main purpose of his visit, “is it true that l’impératrice-mère §12 wants Baron Funke to be named first secretary in Vienna? C’est un pauvre sire, ce baron, à ce qu’il paraît.” #13 Prince Vassily wanted his son to be appointed to this post, which, through the empress Maria Feodorovna, had been solicited for the baron. Anna Pavlovna all but closed her eyes as a sign that neither she nor anyone else could judge of the empress’s good pleasure or liking. “Monsieur le baron de Funke a été recommandé à l’impératrice-mère par sa soeur,” **14 she merely said in a sad, dry tone. The moment Anna Pavlovna mentioned the empress, her face suddenly presented a profound and sincere expression of devotion and respect, combined with sadness, which happened each time she referred to her exalted patroness in conversation. She said that her majesty had deigned to show Baron Funke beaucoup d’estime, *15 and her eyes again clouded over with sadness. The prince lapsed into indifferent silence. Anna Pavlovna, with her courtly and feminine adroitness and ready tact, wanted both to swat the prince for daring to make such a pronouncement about a person recommended to the empress, and at the same time to comfort him. “Mais à propos de votre famille,” she said, “do you know that your daughter, since her coming out, fait les délices de tout le monde? On la trouve belle, comme le jour.” †16 The prince bowed in a sign of respect and gratitude. “I often think,” Anna Pavlovna went on after a moment’s silence, moving closer to the prince and smiling tenderly at him, as if to show thereby that the political and social conversations were at an end and a heart-to-heart one was beginning, “I often think how unfairly life’s good fortune is sometimes distributed. Why has fate given you two such nice children (excluding Anatole, your youngest, I don’t like him),” she put in peremptorily, raising her eyebrows, “such lovely children? And you really value them less than anyone and are therefore unworthy of them.” And she smiled her rapturous smile. “Que voulez-vous? Lavater aurait dit que je n’ai pas la bosse de la paternité,” ‡17 said the prince. “Stop joking. I wanted to talk seriously with you. You know, I’m displeased with your younger son. Just between us,” her face acquired a sad look, “there was talk about him at her majesty’s, and you were pitied…” The prince did not reply, but she fell silent, looking at him significantly, waiting for a reply. Prince Vassily winced. “What am I to do?” he said finally. “You know, I did all a father could for their upbringing, and they both turned out des imbéciles. Ippolit is at least an untroublesome fool, but Anatole is a troublesome one. That’s the only difference,” he said, smiling more unnaturally and animatedly than usual, and with that showing especially clearly in the wrinkles that formed around his mouth something unexpectedly coarse and disagreeable. “Ah, why do such people as you have children? If you weren’t a father, I’d have nothing to reproach you for,” said Anna Pavlovna, raising her eyes pensively. “Je suis votre faithful slave, et à vous seule je puis l’avouer. My children—ce sont les entraves de mon existence. *18 That’s my cross. I explain it that way to myself. Que voulez-vous?…” He paused, expressing with a gesture his submission to cruel fate. Anna Pavlovna fell to thinking. “Have you never thought of getting your prodigal son Anatole married? They say,” she observed, “that old maids ont la manie des marriages. †19 I don’t feel I have that weakness yet, but I know one petite personne who is very unhappy with her father, une parente à nous, une princesse Bolkonsky.” ‡20 Prince Vassily did not reply, though, with the quickness of grasp and memory characteristic of society people, he showed by a nod of the head that he had taken this information into account. “No, you know, this Anatole costs me forty thousand a year,” he said, obviously unable to restrain the melancholy course of his thoughts. He paused. “How will it be in five years, if it goes on like this? Voilà l’avantage d’être père. §21 Is she rich, this princess of yours?” “Her father is very rich and stingy. He lives in the country. You know, it’s the famous Prince Bolkonsky, 9 already retired under the late emperor and nicknamed ‘the King of Prussia.’ He’s a very intelligent man, but an odd and difficult one. La pauvre petite est malheureuse comme les pierres. #22 She has a brother, Kutuzov’s adjutant, the one who recently married Lise Meinen. He’ll come tonight.” “Écoutez, chère Annette,” said the prince, suddenly taking his interlocutor by the hand and pulling it down for some reason. “Arrangez-moi cette affaire et je suis votre faithful slave à tout jamais (slafe—comme mon village headman écrit des reports: f instead of v). **23 She’s from a good family and rich. That’s all I need.” And with those free and familiarly graceful movements which distinguished him, he took the maid of honor’s hand, kissed it, and, having kissed it, waved the maid-of-honorly hand a little, sprawled himself in an armchair, and looked away. “Attendez,” Anna Pavlovna said, pondering. “Tonight I’ll discuss it with Lise (la femme du jeune Bolkonsky). And maybe something can be settled. Ce sera dans votre famille que je ferai mon apprentissage de vielle fille.” Anna Pavlovna’s drawing room gradually began to fill up. The high nobility of Petersburg came, people quite diverse in age and character, but alike in the society they lived in. Prince Vassily’s daughter, the beautiful Hélène, came to fetch her father and go with him to the fête at the ambassador’s. She was wearing a ball gown with a monogram. 10 The young little princess Bolkonsky, known as la femme la plus séduisante de Pétersbourg, *25 also came; married the previous winter, she did not go into high society now for reason of her pregnancy, but did still go to small soirées. Prince Ippolit, Prince Vassily’s son, came with Mortemart, whom he introduced; the abbé Morio also came, and many others. “Have you seen yet” or “have you made the acquaintance of ma tante?” †26 Anna Pavlovna said to the arriving guests, and led them quite seriously to a little old lady in high ribbons, who had come sailing out of the next room as soon as the guests began to arrive, called them by name, slowly shifting her gaze from the guest to ma tante, and then walked away. All the guests performed the ritual of greeting the totally unknown, totally uninteresting and unnecessary aunt. With sad, solemn sympathy, Anna Pavlovna followed their greetings, silently approving of them. To each of them ma tante spoke in the same expressions about his health, her own health, and the health of her majesty, which, thank God, was better that day. All those who went up to her, showing no haste for propriety’s sake, left the little old lady with a feeling of relief after the fulfillment of a heavy obligation, never to approach her again all evening. The young princess Bolkonsky came with handwork in a gold-embroidered velvet bag. Her pretty upper lip with its barely visible black mustache was too short for her teeth, but the more sweetly did it open and still more sweetly did it sometimes stretch and close on the lower one. As happens with perfectly attractive women, her flaw—a short lip and half-opened mouth—seemed her special, personal beauty. Everyone felt cheerful looking at this pretty future mother full of health and liveliness, who bore her condition so easily. To old men and to bored, morose young ones it seemed that they themselves came to resemble her, having been with her and spoken with her for a time. Anyone who talked with her and saw her bright little smile at every word and her gleaming white teeth, which showed constantly, thought himself especially amiable that day. And that is what each of them thought. The little princess, waddling, went around the table with small, quick steps, her bag of handwork hanging on her arm, and, cheerfully straightening her dress, sat down on the sofa near the silver samovar, looking as though everything she did was a partie de plaisir *27 for her and for everyone around her. “J’ai apporté mon ouvrage,” †28 she said, unclasping her reticule and addressing them all together. “Look, Annette, ne me jouez pas un mauvais tour,” she turned to the hostess. “Vouz m’avez écrit que c’était une toute petite soirée; voyez comme je suis attifée.” ‡29 And she spread her arms to show her elegant gray, lace-trimmed dress, tied slightly below the breasts with a broad ribbon. “Soyez tranquille, Lise, vous serez toujours la plus jolie,” §30 Anna Pavlovna replied. “Vous savez, mon mari m’abandonne,” she went on in the same tone, turning to a general, “il va se faire tuer. Dites moi, pourquoi cette vilaine guerre?” #31 she said to Prince Vassily and, not waiting for an answer, turned to Prince Vassily’s daughter, the beautiful Hélène. “Quelle délicieuse personne, que cette petite princesse!” **32 Prince Vassily said to Anna Pavlovna. Soon after the little princess came a massive, fat young man with a cropped head, in spectacles, light-colored trousers of the latest fashion, a high jabot, and a brown tailcoat. This fat young man was the illegitimate son of a famous courtier from Catherine’s time, Count Bezukhov, who was now dying in Moscow. He did not serve anywhere yet, he had only just arrived from abroad, where he had been educated, and this was his first time in society. Anna Pavlovna greeted him with a nod reserved for people of the lowest hierarchy in her salon. But, despite this greeting of the lowest sort, at the sight of the entering Pierre uneasiness and fear showed in Anna Pavlovna’s face, like that expressed at the sight of something all too enormous and unsuited to the place. Though Pierre was indeed somewhat larger than the other men in the room, this fear could have referred only to the intelligent and at the same time shy, observant, and natural gaze which distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room. “C’est bien aimable à vous, monsieur Pierre, d’être venu voir une pauvre malade,” *33 Anna Pavlovna said to him, exchanging fearful looks with the aunt, to whom she was bringing him. Pierre burbled something incomprehensible and went on searching for something with his eyes. He smiled joyfully, merrily, bowed to the little princess as to a close acquaintance, and went up to the aunt. Anna Pavlovna’s fear was not in vain, because Pierre, without hearing out the aunt’s talk about her majesty’s health, walked away from her. The frightened Anna Pavlovna stopped him with the words: “You don’t know the abbé Morio? He’s a very interesting man…” she said. “Yes, I’ve heard about his plan for eternal peace, 11 and it’s very interesting, but hardly possible…” “You think so?…” said Anna Pavlovna, in order to say something, and again turned to her duties as mistress of the house, but Pierre committed the reverse discourtesy. Earlier he had walked away without hearing out a lady who was talking to him; now he held with his conversation a lady who needed to leave him. Lowering his head and spreading his big feet, he began to explain to Anna Pavlovna why he thought that the abbé’s plan was a chimera. “We’ll talk later,” Anna Pavlovna said, smiling. And, ridding herself of the young man who did not know how to live, she returned to her duties as mistress of the house and went on listening and looking out, ready to come to the rescue at any point where the conversation lagged. As the owner of a spinning mill, having put his workers in their places, strolls about the establishment, watching out for an idle spindle or the odd one squealing much too loudly, and hastens to go and slow it down or start it up at the proper speed—so Anna Pavlovna strolled about her drawing room, going up to a circle that had fallen silent or was too talkative, and with one word or rearrangement set the conversation machine running evenly and properly again. But amidst all these cares there could still be seen in her a special fear for Pierre. She glanced at him concernedly when he went over to listen to what was being talked about around Mortemart and went on to another circle where the abbé was talking. For Pierre, brought up abroad, this soirée of Anna Pavlovna’s was the first he had seen in Russia. He knew that all the intelligentsia of Petersburg was gathered there, and, like a child in a toy shop, he looked everywhere at once. He kept fearing to miss intelligent conversations that he might have listened to. Looking at the self-assured and elegant expressions on the faces gathered here, he kept expecting something especially intelligent. Finally he went up to Morio. The conversation seemed interesting to him, and he stopped, waiting for a chance to voice his thoughts, as young people like to do. Anna Pavlovna’s soirée got going. The spindles on all sides hummed evenly and ceaselessly. Besides ma tante, next to whom sat only one elderly lady with a thin, weepy face, somewhat alien to this brilliant company, the company had broken up into three circles. In one, mostly masculine, the center was the abbé in another, of young people, it was the beautiful Princess Hélène, Prince Vassily’s daughter, and the pretty, red-cheeked little princess Bolkonsky, too plump for her age. In the third, it was Mortemart and Anna Pavlovna. The viscount was a nice-looking young man, with soft features and manners, obviously regarded himself as a celebrity, but, from good breeding, modestly allowed himself to be made use of by the company in which he found himself. Anna Pavlovna was obviously treating her guests to him. As a good maître d’hôtel presents, as something supernaturally excellent, a piece of beef one would not want to eat if one saw it in the dirty kitchen, so that evening Anna Pavlovna served up to her guests first the viscount, then the abbé, as something supernaturally refined. In Mortemart’s circle the conversation turned at once to the murder of the duc d’Enghien. 12 The viscount said that the duc d’Enghien had perished from his own magnanimity and that there were special reasons for Bonaparte’s viciousness. “Ah, voyons. Contez-nous cela, vicomte,” *34 said Anna Pavlovna, joyfully sensing that something à la Louis XV echoed in this phrase, “contez-nous cela, vicomte.” The viscount bowed as a sign of submission and smiled politely. Anna Pavlovna circled around the viscount and invited everyone to listen to his story. “Le vicomte a été personellement connu de monseigneur,” Anna Pavlovna whispered to one. “Le vicomte est un parfait conteur,” she said to another. “Comme on voit l’homme de la bonne compagnie,” †35 she said to a third; and the viscount was presented to the company in a most refined and advantageous light, like a roast beef on a hot platter sprinkled with herbs. The viscount was just about to begin his story and smiled subtly. “Come over here, chère Hélène,” Anna Pavlovna said to the beautiful princess, who was sitting some way off, forming the center of another circle. Princess Hélène was smiling; she got up with the same unchanging smile of a perfectly beautiful woman with which she had entered the drawing room. Lightly rustling her white ball gown trimmed with ivy and moss, her white shoulders gleaming, her hair and diamonds shining, she walked straight on between the parted men, not looking at anyone, but smiling to everyone, and as if kindly granting each of them the right to admire the beauty of her figure, her full shoulders, her very exposed bosom and back, as the fashion then was, and, as if bringing with her the brilliance of a ball, approached Anna Pavlovna. Hélène was so good-looking that there was not only not a trace of coquetry to be seen in her, but, on the contrary, it was as if she was embarrassed by her unquestionable and all too strongly and triumphantly effective beauty. It was as if she wished but was unable to diminish the effect of her beauty. “Quelle belle personne!” *36 said everyone who saw her. As if struck by something extraordinary, the viscount shrugged his shoulders and lowered his eyes while she was seating herself before him and shining upon him that same unchanging smile. “Madame, je crains pour mes moyens devant un pareil auditoire,” †37 he said, inclining his head with a smile. The princess rested the elbow of her bare, rounded arm on a little table and did not find it necessary to say anything. She waited, smiling. Throughout the story she sat erect, glancing occasionally now at her rounded, beautiful arm lying lightly on the table, now at the still more beautiful bosom on which she straightened a diamond necklace; she also straightened the folds of her gown several times, and, when the story produced an impression, turned to look at Anna Pavlovna and at once assumed the same expression as on the maid of honor’s face, and then settled back into a radiant smile. After Hélène, the little princess also came over from the tea table. “Attendez-moi, je vais prendre mon ouvrage,” she said. “Voyons, à quoi pensez-vous?” she turned to Prince Ippolit. “Apportez-moi mon reticule.” ‡38 The princess, smiling and talking with everyone, suddenly effected the transposition, and, taking a seat, cheerily settled herself. “Now I feel good,” she said several times, and, asking them to begin, started to work. Prince Ippolit fetched her reticule, came after her, and, moving his chair towards her, sat down close by. Le charmant Hippolyte was striking in his extraordinary resemblance to his beautiful sister, and still more in being strikingly unattractive, despite that resemblance. The features of his face were the same as his sister’s, but in her everything was lit up by her joyous, self-contented, young, unchanging smile and the extraordinary classical beauty of her body. In her brother, on the contrary, the same face was clouded by idiocy and invariably expressed a selfassured peevishness, and his body was skinny and weak. His eyes, nose, and mouth all seemed to shrink into an indefinite and dull grimace, and his arms and legs always assumed an unnatural position. “Ce n’est pas une histoire des revenants?” *39 he said, sitting down near the princess and hastily affixing a lorgnette to his eyes, as if he was unable to start talking without this instrument. “Mais non, mon cher,” †40 the surprised storyteller said, shrugging his shoulders. “C’est que je déteste les histoires des revenants,” ‡41 said Prince Ippolit in such a tone that it was clear he had said these words and only then understood what they meant. Because of the self-assurance with which he spoke, no one could make out whether what he had said was very clever or very stupid. He was wearing a dark green tailcoat, trousers the color of cuisse de nymphe effrayée, §42 as he said himself, stockings and shoes. The vicomte told very nicely the then current anecdote that the duc d’Enghien had secretly gone to Paris to meet with Mlle George, and that there he had met Bonaparte, who also enjoyed the famous actress’s favors, and that there, having met the duke, Napoleon happened to fall into one of those faints he was prone to and found himself in the duke’s power, which the duke did not take advantage of, and that Bonaparte afterwards revenged himself for this magnanimity with the duke’s death. The story was very nice and interesting, especially the moment when the rivals suddenly recognized each other, and the ladies, it seemed, were stirred. “Charmant,” said Anna Pavlovna, looking questioningly at the little princess. “Charmant,” whispered the little princess, sticking the needle into her work as if to signify that the interest and charm of the story kept her from going on working. The viscount appreciated this silent praise and, smiling gratefully, began to go on; but at that moment Anna Pavlovna, who kept glancing at the young man she found so frightening, noticed that his conversation with the abbé was much too loud and vehement, and she rushed to the rescue at the place of danger. Indeed, Pierre had managed to strike up a conversation with the abbé about political balance, and the abbé, obviously intrigued by the young man’s simplehearted vehemence, was developing his favorite idea before him. The two men listened and talked too animatedly and naturally, and it was this that Anna Pavlovna did not like. “The means are European balance and the droit des gens,” *43 the abbé was saying. “Let a powerful state like Russia, famous for its barbarism, stand disinterestedly at the head of a union having as its purpose the balance of Europe —and it will save the world!” “How are you going to find such balance?” Pierre began; but just then Anna Pavlovna came over and, with a stern glance at Pierre, asked the Italian how he was taking the local climate. The Italian’s face suddenly changed and acquired an insultingly false sweetness of expression, which was probably habitual with him in conversations with women. “I’m so enchanted with the charms of the intelligence and cultivation of society, especially the women’s, where I have had the happiness to be received, that I have not yet had time to think about the climate,” he said. Not letting go of the abbé and Pierre, Anna Pavlovna, the better to keep an eye on them, joined them to the general circle. Just then a new person entered the drawing room. This new person was the young Prince Andrei Bolkonsky, the little princess’s husband. Prince Bolkonsky was of medium height, a rather handsome young man with well-defined and dry features. Everything in his figure, from his weary, bored gaze to his quiet, measured gait, presented the sharpest contrast with his small, lively wife. Obviously, he not only knew everyone in the drawing room, but was also so sick of them that it was very boring for him to look at them and listen to them. Of all the faces he found so boring, the face of his pretty wife seemed to be the one he was most sick of. With a grimace that spoiled his handsome face, he turned away from her. He kissed Anna Pavlovna’s hand and, narrowing his eyes, looked around at the whole company. “Vous vous enrôlez pour la guerre, mon prince?” †44 said Anna Pavlovna. “Le général Koutouzoff,” said Bolkonsky, emphasizing the last syllable, zoff, like a Frenchman, “a bien voulu de moi pour aide-de-camp…” ‡45 “Et Lise, votre femme?” §46 “She’ll go to the country.” “Shame on you to deprive us of your lovely wife.” “André,” said his wife, addressing her husband in the same coquettish tone in which she addressed others, “what a story the viscount told us about mademoiselle George and Bonaparte!” Prince Andrei closed his eyes and turned away. Pierre, who had not taken his joyful, friendly eyes off Prince Andrei since he entered the drawing room, went up to him and took his arm. Prince Andrei, without turning around, wrinkled his face into a grimace, expressing vexation at whoever had taken his arm, but, seeing Pierre’s smiling face, suddenly smiled an unexpectedly kind and pleasant smile. “Well, well!…So you, too, are in high society!” he said to Pierre. “I knew you’d be here,” Pierre replied. “I’ll come to you for supper,” he added softly, so as not to interfere with the viscount, who was going on with his story. “May I?” “No, you may not,” Prince Andrei said, laughing, letting Pierre know by the pressure of his hand that there was no need to ask. He was about to say more, but just then Prince Vassily and his daughter rose, and the men stood up to let them pass. “You will excuse me, my dear viscount,” Prince Vassily said to the Frenchman, gently pulling him down on his chair by the sleeve, so that he would not stand up. “This unfortunate fête at the ambassador’s deprives me of my pleasure and interrupts you. I’m very sorry to leave your delightful soirée,” he said to Anna Pavlovna. His daughter, Princess Hélène, lightly holding the folds of her gown, walked between the chairs, and the smile shone still more brightly on her beautiful face. Pierre looked with enraptured, almost frightened eyes at this beauty as she walked past him. “Very good-looking,” said Prince Andrei. “Very,” said Pierre. Passing by, Prince Vassily seized Pierre by the hand and turned to Anna Pavlovna. “Educate this bear for me,” he said. “He’s been living with me for a month, and this is the first time I’ve seen him in society. Nothing is so necessary for a young man as the company of intelligent women.” Anna Pavlovna smiled and promised to occupy herself with Pierre, who she knew was related to Prince Vassily through his father. The elderly lady who had so far been sitting with ma tante hastily got up and overtook Prince Vassily in the front hall. All the former sham interest disappeared from her face. Her kind, weepy face expressed only anxiety and fear. “What can you tell me, Prince, about my Boris?” she said, overtaking him in the front hall. (She pronounced the name Boris with a special emphasis on the o.) “I cannot remain in Petersburg any longer. Tell me, what news can I bring my poor boy?” Though Prince Vassily listened to the elderly lady reluctantly and almost impolitely, and even showed impatience, she smiled at him gently and touchingly, and even took him by the arm to keep him from walking away. “It won’t cost you anything to say a word to the sovereign, and he’ll be transferred straight away to the guards,” she pleaded. “Believe me, Princess, I’ll do all I can,” replied Prince Vassily, “but it’s hard for me to ask the sovereign. I’d advise you to turn to Rumyantsev through Prince Golitsyn—that would be smarter.” The elderly lady bore the name of Princess Drubetskoy, one of the best families of Russia, but she was poor, had long since left society, and had lost her former connections. She had come now to solicit an appointment to the guards for her only son. She had invited herself and come to Anna Pavlovna’s soirée only in order to see Prince Vassily, only for that had she listened to the viscount’s story. Prince Vassily’s words frightened her; her once beautiful face showed spite, but that lasted no more than a moment. She smiled again and took a slightly stronger grip on Prince Vassily’s arm. “Listen, Prince,” she said, “I’ve never asked you for anything, and never will, I’ve never reminded you of my father’s friendship for you. But now, I adjure you in God’s name, do this for my son, and I will consider you my benefactor,” she added hastily. “No, don’t be angry, but promise me. I asked Golitsyn and he refused. Soyez le bon enfant que vous avez été,” *47 she said, trying to smile, though there were tears in her eyes. “Papá, we’ll be late,” said Princess Hélène, who was waiting at the door, turning her beautiful head on her classical shoulders. But influence in society is a capital that must be used sparingly, lest it disappear. Prince Vassily knew that and, having once realized that if he were to solicit for everyone who solicited from him, it would soon become impossible for him to solicit for himself, he rarely used his influence. In Princess Drubetskoy’s case, however, after her new appeal, he felt something like a pang of conscience. She had reminded him of the truth: he owed his first steps in the service to her father. Besides, he could see from the way she behaved that she was one of those women, especially mothers, who, once they take something into their heads, will not leave off until their desire is fulfilled, and are otherwise prepared to pester you every day and every minute, and even to make scenes. This last consideration gave him pause. “Chère Anna Mikhailovna,” he said, with his usual tone of familiarity and boredom, “it is almost impossible for me to do what you want; but to prove to you how much I love you and honor the memory of your late father, I will do the impossible: your son will be transferred to the guards, here is my hand on it. Are you satisfied?” “My dear, you are our benefactor! I expected nothing else from you; I knew how kind you are.” He was about to leave. “Wait, two more words. Une fois passé aux gardes…” *48 She faltered. “You’re on good terms with Mikhail Ilarionovich Kutuzov, recommend Boris as his adjutant. Then I’ll be at peace and…” Prince Vassily smiled. “That I will not promise you. You know how besieged Kutuzov has been since he was appointed commander in chief. 13 He told me himself that all the Moscow ladies are conspiring to send their children to be his adjutants.” “No, you must promise, I won’t let you go, my dear benefactor.” “Papá,” the beauty repeated in the same tone, “we’ll be late.” “Well, au revoir, good-bye, you see…” “So you’ll speak to the sovereign tomorrow?” “Without fail, but to Kutuzov I don’t promise.” “No, do promise, do promise, Basile,” Anna Mikhailovna said behind him, with the smile of a young coquette, which must have suited her very well once, but now did not go with her emaciated face. She evidently forgot her age and employed, out of habit, all her old feminine resources. But as soon as he left, her face again acquired the same cold, sham expression it had had before. She went back to the circle, where the viscount was going on with his story, and again pretended to listen, waiting for the moment to leave, since her business was done. “But how do you find all this latest comedy du sacre de Milan,” 14 asked Anna Pavlovna. “Et la nouvelle comédie des peuples de Gênes et de Lucques, qui viennent présenter leurs voeux à M. Buonaparte. M. Buonaparte assis sur un trône, et exauçant les voeux des nations! Adorable! Non, mais c’est à en devenir folle! On dirait, que le monde entier a perdu la tête.” †49 Prince Andrei grinned, looking straight into Anna Pavlovna’s face. “‘Dieu me la donne, gare à qui la touche,’” he said (Bonaparte’s words, spoken as the crown was placed on him). “On dit qu’il a été très beau en prononçant ces paroles,” ‡50 he added, and repeated the words once more in Italian: “‘Dio mi la dona, guai a chi la tocca.’” “J’espère enfin,” Anna Pavlovna continued, “que ça a été la goutte d’eau qui fera déborder le verre. Les souverains ne peuvent plus supporter cet homme, qui menace tout.” *51 “Les souverains? Je ne parle pas de la Russie,” the viscount said courteously and hopelessly. “Les souverains, madame? Qu’ont-ils fait pour Louis XVI, pour la reine, pour madame Elisabeth? 15 Rien,” he continued, growing animated. “Et croyez-moi, ils subissent la punition pour leur trahison de la cause des Bourbons. Les souverains? Ils envoient des ambassadeurs complimenter l’usurpateur.” †52 And with a contemptuous sigh, he again changed position. At these words, Prince Ippolit, who had long been gazing at the viscount through his lorgnette, suddenly turned his whole body to the little princess and, asking her for a needle, began showing her the coat of arms of the Condés, 16 drawing with the needle on the table. He explained this coat of arms to her with a significant air, as if the princess had asked him about it. “Baton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison Condé,” ‡53 he said. The princess listened, smiling. “If Bonaparte remains on the throne of France for another year,” the viscount continued the new conversation, with the air of a man who does not listen to others, but, in matters known better to him than to anyone else, follows only the train of his own thoughts, “things will go too far. Intrigues, coercion, banishments, executions will forever destroy French society—I mean good society—and then…” He shrugged his shoulders and spread his arms. Pierre was about to say something: the conversation interested him, but Anna Pavlovna, who was keeping watch on him, interrupted. “The emperor Alexander,” she said, with the sadness that always accompanied her talk about the imperial family, “declared that he would leave it to the French themselves to choose their form of government. And I think there’s no doubt that the whole nation, freed of the usurper, will throw itself into the arms of the lawful king,” Anna Pavlovna said, trying to be amiable to the émigré and royalist. “That’s doubtful,” said Prince Andrei. “Monsieur le vicomte quite rightly supposes that things have already gone too far. I think it would be hard to return to the old ways.” “From what I’ve heard,” Pierre, blushing, again mixed into the conversation, “almost all the nobility have already gone over to Bonaparte’s side.” “It’s the Bonapartists who say that,” said the viscount, not looking at Pierre. “Right now it’s hard to know public opinion in France.” “Bonaparte l’a dit,” *54 Prince Andrei said with a grin. (It was evident that he did not like the viscount and that, though he was not looking at him, his talk was directed against him.) “‘Je leur ai montré le chemin de la gloire,’” he said after a short silence, again repeating the words of Napoleon, “‘ils n’en ont pas voulu; je leur ai ouvert mes antichambres, ils se sont précipités en foule…’ Je ne sais pas à quel point il a eu le droit de le dire.” †55 “Aucun,” the viscount retorted. “After the duke’s murder, even the most partial people ceased to see a hero in him. Si même ça a été un héros pour certains gens,” the viscount said, turning to Anna Pavlovna, “depuis l’assassinat du duc il y a un martyr de plus dans le ciel, un héros de moins sur la terre.” ‡56 Before Anna Pavlovna and the others had time to smile appreciatively at these words of the viscount’s, Pierre again burst into the conversation, and Anna Pavlovna, though she anticipated that he would say something improper, could no longer stop him. “The execution of the duc d’Enghien,” said Pierre, “was a necessity of state; and I precisely see greatness of soul in the fact that Napoleon was not afraid to take upon himself alone the responsibility for this act.” “Dieu! mon dieu!” §57 Anna Pavlovna whispered in a frightened whisper. “Comment, monsieur Pierre, vous trouvez que l’assassinat est grandeur d’âme?” #58 said the little princess, smiling and drawing her work towards her. “Ah! Oh!” said various voices. “Capital!” Prince Ippolit said in English and began slapping his knee with his palm. The viscount merely shrugged. Pierre gazed triumphantly at his listeners over his spectacles. “I say that,” he went on desperately, “because the Bourbons fled from the revolution, abandoning the people to anarchy; and Napoleon alone was able to understand the revolution, to defeat it, and therefore, for the sake of the common good, he could not stop short at the life of a single man.” “Wouldn’t you like to move to that table?” asked Anna Pavlovna. But Pierre, not answering, went on with his speech. “No,” he said, growing more and more inspired, “Napoleon is great, because he stood above the revolution, put an end to its abuses, and kept all that was good—the equality of citizens and freedom of speech and of the press—and that is the only reason why he gained power.” “Yes, if he had taken that power and, without using it for murder, given it to the lawful king,” said the viscount, “then I would call him a great man.” “He couldn’t do that. The people gave him power only so that he could deliver them from the Bourbons, and because the people saw a great man in him. The revolution was a great thing,” M’sieur Pierre went on, showing by this desperate and provocative parenthetical phrase his great youth and desire to speak everything out all the sooner. “Revolution and regicide a great thing?…After that…wouldn’t you like to move to that table?” Anna Pavlovna repeated. “Contrat social,” *59 17 the viscount said with a meek smile. “I’m not talking about regicide. I’m talking about ideas.” “Yes, the ideas of pillage, murder, and regicide,” an ironic voice interrupted again. “Those were extremes, to be sure, but the whole meaning wasn’t in them, the meaning was in the rights of man, emancipation from prejudice, the equality of citizens; and Napoleon kept all these ideas in all their force.” “Liberty and equality,” the viscount said scornfully, as if finally deciding to prove seriously to this young man all the stupidity of his talk, “these are resounding words that have long been compromised. Who doesn’t love liberty and equality? Our Savior already preached liberty and equality. Did people become happier after the revolution? On the contrary. We wanted liberty, but Bonaparte destroyed it.” Prince Andrei kept glancing with a smile now at Pierre, now at the viscount, now at the hostess. For the first moment of Pierre’s outburst, Anna Pavlovna was horrified, accustomed though she was to society; but when she saw that despite the blasphemous speeches uttered by Pierre, the viscount did not lose his temper, and when she became certain that it was now impossible to suppress these speeches, she gathered her forces and, joining the viscount, attacked the orator. “Mais, mon cher monsieur Pierre,” said Anna Pavlovna, “how do you explain a great man who could execute a duke, or, finally, any simple man, without a trial and without guilt?” “I’d like to ask,” said the viscount, “how monsieur explains the eighteenth Brumaire. 18 Was that not a deception? C’est un escamotage, qui ne ressemble nullement à la manière d’agir d’un grand homme.” †60 “And the prisoners he killed in Africa?” 19 said the little princess. “It’s terrible!” And she shrugged her shoulders. “C’est un roturier, vous aurez beau dire,” *61 said Prince Ippolit. M’sieur Pierre did not know whom to answer, looked around at them all, and smiled. His smile was not like that of other people, blending into a non-smile. With him, on the contrary, when a smile came, his serious and even somewhat sullen face vanished suddenly, instantly, and another appeared—childish, kind, even slightly stupid, and as if apologetic. To the viscount, who was meeting him for the first time, it was clear that this Jacobin was not at all as frightening as his words. Everyone fell silent. “Do you want him to answer everybody at once?” asked Prince Andrei. “Besides, in the acts of a statesman one must distinguish among the acts of the private person, the military leader, and the emperor. So it seems to me.” “Yes, yes, of course,” Pierre picked up, gladdened by the arrival of unexpected help. “It’s impossible not to admit,” Prince Andrei went on, “that Napoleon was a great man on the bridge of Arcole, and in the Jaffa hospital, when he shook hands with the plague victims, 20 but…there are other acts which are hard to justify.” Prince Andrei, who evidently wanted to soften the awkwardness of Pierre’s speech, got up, intending to leave and making a sign to his wife. Suddenly Prince Ippolit rose and, gesturing for everyone to stay and sit down, began to speak: “Ah! aujourd’hui on m’a raconté une anecdote moscovite, charmante: il faut que je vous en régale. Vous m’excusez, vicomte, il faut que je raconte en russe. Autrement on ne sentira pas le sel de l’histoire.” †62 And Prince Ippolit began to speak in Russian, with a pronunciation such as Frenchmen have after spending a year in Russia. Everyone stayed: so animatedly, so insistently did Prince Ippolit call for attention to his story. “In Moscou there is a ladee, une dame. And she is very stingee. She must ’ave two valets de pied ‡63 behind the carriage. And of very grand height. That was in her taste. Now, she ‘ad une femme de chambre, §64 also of grand height. She said…” Here Prince Ippolit fell to thinking, evidently having a hard time working it out. “She said…yes, she said: ‘Girl’ (to the femme de chambre), ‘put on a livrée and come with me, behind the carriage, faire des visites.’” *65 Here Prince Ippolit snorted and guffawed, far in advance of his listeners, which produced an impression unfavorable to the narrator. Many smiled, however, the elderly lady and Anna Pavlovna among them. “So she went. Suddenly there was a strong wind. The girl lost her hat, and her long hairs came undone…” Here he could no longer control himself and began laughing fitfully, saying through his laughter: “And the whole world found out…” With that the anecdote ended. Though it was not clear why he had told it, and why it absolutely had to be told in Russian, all the same Anna Pavlovna and the others appreciated Prince Ippolit’s social grace, in thus pleasantly putting an end to M’sieur Pierre’s unpleasant and ungracious outburst. After the anecdote, the conversation broke up into small, insignificant commentaries on past and future balls, on performances, and on who would see whom when and where. Having thanked Anna Pavlovna for her charmante soirée, the guests began to leave. Pierre was clumsy. Fat, unusually tall, broad, with enormous red hands, he did not, as they say, know how to enter a salon, and still less did he know how to leave one, that is, by saying something especially pleasant at the door. Besides that, he was absentminded. Getting up, he took a three-cornered hat with a general’s plumage instead of his own and held on to it, plucking at the feathers, until the general asked him to give it back. But all his absentmindedness and inability to enter a salon and speak in it were redeemed by his expression of good nature, simplicity, and modesty. Anna Pavlovna turned to him and, with a Christian meekness expressing forgiveness for his outburst, nodded to him and said: “I hope to see you again, but I also hope that you will change your opinions, my dear M’sieur Pierre,” she said. When she said this to him, he made no reply, but only bowed and once more showed everyone his smile, which said nothing except perhaps this: “Opinions are opinions, but you see what a good and nice fellow I am.” And everyone, including Anna Pavlovna, involuntarily felt it. Prince Andrei went out to the front hall and, offering his shoulders to the footman, who was putting his cloak on him, listened indifferently to his wife’s chatter with Prince Ippolit, who also came out to the front hall. Prince Ippolit stood beside the pretty, pregnant princess and looked at her directly and intently through his lorgnette. “Go in, Annette, you’ll catch cold,” said the little princess, taking leave of Anna Pavlovna. “C’est arrêté,” *66 she added softly. Anna Pavlovna had already managed to speak with Liza about the match she was contriving between Anatole and the little princess’s sister-in-law. “I’m relying on you, my dear friend,” Anna Pavlovna said, also softly, “you’ll write to her and tell me comment le père envisagera la chose. Au revoir.” †67 And she left the front hall. Prince Ippolit went over to the little princess and, bringing his face down close to hers, began saying something to her in a half whisper. Two footmen, one the princess’s, the other his, waiting for them to finish talking, stood with shawl and redingote and listened to their French talk, which they could not understand, with such faces as if they understood what was being said but did not want to show it. The princess, as usual, talked smilingly and listened laughingly. “I’m very glad I didn’t go to the ambassador’s,” said Prince Ippolit, “it’s boring…A wonderful evening. Wonderful, isn’t it so?” “They say the ball will be very nice,” replied the princess, her slightly mustached lip pulling upwards. “All the beautiful society women will be there.” “Not all, since you won’t be there; not all,” said Prince Ippolit, laughing joyfully, and, snatching the shawl from the footman, even shoving him, he began putting it on the princess. Either from awkwardness or intentionally (no one would have been able to tell), he was a long while lowering his arms, even when the shawl was already put on, and it was as if he was embracing the young woman. Graciously, but still smiling, she withdrew, turned, and looked at her husband. Prince Andrei’s eyes were shut, which made him look tired and sleepy. “Are you ready, madame?” he asked his wife, looking past her. Prince Ippolit hastily put on his redingote, which, in the new style, hung lower than his heels, and, tangling himself in it, ran to the porch after the princess, whom the footman was helping into the carriage. “Princesse, au revoir,” he cried, his tongue getting as tangled as his feet. The princess, picking up her dress, was settling herself in the darkness of the carriage; her husband was straightening his sword; Prince Ippolit, on the pretext of being of service, got in everyone’s way. “Ex-cuse me, sir,” Prince Andrei, with dry unpleasantness, addressed himself in Russian to Prince Ippolit, who was standing in his way. “I’ll be waiting for you, Pierre,” the same voice of Prince Andrei said gently and tenderly. The postilion touched up the horses, and the wheels of the carriage rumbled. Prince Ippolit laughed fitfully, standing on the porch and waiting for the viscount, whom he had promised to take home. “Eh, bien, mon cher, votre petite princesse est très bien, très bien,” said the viscount, getting into the carriage with Ippolit. “Mais très bien.” He kissed the tips of his fingers. “Et tout-à-fait française.” *68 Ippolit laughed with a snort. “Et savez-vous que vous êtes terrible avec votre petit air innocent,” the viscount continued. “Je plains le pauvre mari, ce petit officier, qui se donne des airs de prince régnant.” †69 Ippolit snorted again and said through his laughter: “Et vous disiez, que les dames russes ne valaient pas les dames françaises. Il faut savoir s’y prendre.” ‡70 Pierre, arriving first, went to Prince Andrei’s study, being a familiar of the house, and, as was his habit, at once lay down on the sofa, took the first book that caught his eye from the shelf (it was Caesar’s Commentaries), 21 and, leaning on his elbow, began reading it from the middle. “What have you done to mademoiselle Scherer? She’ll be quite ill now,” said Prince Andrei, coming into his study and rubbing his small white hands. Pierre swung his whole body so that the sofa creaked, turned his animated face to Prince Andrei, smiled, and waved his hand. “No, that abbé is very interesting, only he has the wrong notion of things…In my opinion, eternal peace is possible, but I don’t know how to say it…Only it’s not through political balance…” Prince Andrei was obviously not interested in these abstract conversations. “Mon cher, you can’t go saying what you think everywhere. Well, so, have you finally decided on anything? Are you going to be a horse guard or a diplomat?” Prince Andrei asked after a moment’s silence. Pierre sat up on the sofa with both legs tucked under him. “Can you imagine, I still don’t know. I don’t like either of them.” “But you must decide on something. Your father’s waiting.” At the age of ten, Pierre had been sent abroad with an abbé-tutor and had remained there until he was twenty. When he returned to Moscow, his father dismissed the abbé and said to the young man: “Go to Petersburg now, look around, and choose. I’ll agree to anything. Here’s a letter to Prince Vassily, and here’s some money. Write to me about everything, I’ll help you in everything.” Pierre had been choosing a career for three months already and had done nothing. This was the choice that Prince Andrei was talking about with him. Pierre rubbed his forehead. “But he must be a Mason,” 22 he said, meaning the abbé he had seen at the soirée. “That’s all rubbish,” Prince Andrei stopped him again, “better let’s talk about business. Have you been to the horse guards?…” “No, I haven’t, but here’s what’s come into my head and I wanted to tell you. There’s war now against Napoleon. If it were a war for freedom, I could understand it, I’d be the first to go into military service; but to help England and Austria against the greatest man in the world…is not right.” Prince Andrei merely shrugged his shoulders at Pierre’s childish talk. He made it look as though he could not reply to such stupidity; but in fact it was hard to reply to this naïve question in any other way than Prince Andrei had done. “If everyone made war only according to his own convictions, there would be no war,” he said. “And that would be excellent,” said Pierre. Prince Andrei smiled. “It might very well be excellent, but it will never happen…” “Well, what makes you go to war?” asked Pierre. “What makes me? I don’t know. I have to. Besides, I’m going…” He paused. “I’m going because this life I lead here, this life—is not for me!” There was the rustle of a woman’s dress in the next room. Prince Andrei shook himself as if coming to his senses, and his face took on the same expression it had had in Anna Pavlovna’s drawing room. Pierre lowered his legs from the sofa. The princess came in. She had already changed to a house dress, but one just as elegant and fresh. Prince Andrei stood up, politely moving an armchair for her. “Why is it, I often wonder,” she began, in French as always, hurriedly and fussily sitting down in the armchair, “why is it that Annette has never married? How stupid you all are, messieurs, not to have married her. Forgive me, but you understand nothing about women. You’re such an arguer, M’sieur Pierre.” “I also keep arguing with your husband. I don’t understand why he wants to go to the war,” said Pierre, without any constraint (so usual in the relations of a young man with a young woman), turning to the princess. The princess gave a flutter. Evidently Pierre’s words had touched her to the quick. “Ah, that’s just what I say!” she said. “I don’t understand, I decidedly do not understand, why men can’t live without war. Why is it that we women want none of it and have no need of it? Well, you be the judge. I keep telling him: here he’s his uncle’s adjutant, a most brilliant position. He’s so well-known, so appreciated by everyone. The other day at the Apraksins’ I heard a lady ask: ‘C’est ça le fameux prince André?’ Ma parole d’honneur!” *71 she laughed. “He’s so well received everywhere. He could easily become an imperial adjutant. You know, the sovereign spoke to him very graciously. Annette and I were saying that it could easily be arranged. What do you think?” Pierre looked at Prince Andrei and, noticing that his friend did not like this conversation, made no reply. “When do you go?” he asked. “Ah! ne me parlez pas de ce départ, ne m’en parlez pas. Je ne veux pas en entendre parler,” †72 the princess said in the same capriciously playful tone in which she had spoken with Ippolit in the drawing room and which was so obviously unsuited to the family circle, where Pierre was like a member. “Today, when I thought how I’d have to break off all these dear relations…And then, you know, André?” She winked meaningfully at her husband. “J’ai peur, j’ai peur!” ‡73 she whispered, her back shuddering. Her husband looked at her as if he was surprised to notice there was someone else in the room besides himself and Pierre. However, with cold politeness he inquiringly addressed his wife: “What are you afraid of, Liza? I cannot understand,” he said. “See what egoists all men are; all, all egoists! For the sake of his whims, God knows why, he abandons me, he locks me up in the country alone.” “With my father and sister, don’t forget,” Prince Andrei said quietly. “Alone all the same, without my friends…And he wants me not to be afraid.” Her tone was querulous now, her little lip rose, giving her face not a joyful but an animalish, squirrel-like expression. She fell silent, as if finding it indecent to speak of her pregnancy in front of Pierre, though that was where the essence of the matter lay. “I still haven’t understood de quoi vous avez peur,” *74 Prince Andrei said slowly, not taking his eyes off his wife. The princess blushed and waved her hands desperately. “Non, André, je dis que vous avez tellement, tellement changé…” †75 “Your doctor tells you to go to bed earlier,” said Prince Andrei. “You should get some sleep.” The princess said nothing, and her short lip with its little mustache suddenly trembled. Prince Andrei, getting up and shrugging his shoulders, began to pace the room. Pierre gazed wonderingly and naïvely through his spectacles now at him, now at the princess, and stirred as if he also wanted to get up, but changed his mind again. “What do I care if M’sieur Pierre is here,” the little princess said suddenly, and her pretty face suddenly spread into a tearful grimace. “I’ve long wanted to say to you, André: why have you changed so much towards me? What have I done to you? You’re going into the army, you have no pity for me. Why is it?” “Lise!” was all Prince Andrei said; but in this word there was an entreaty, and a threat, and above all the conviction that she herself would regret her words; but she hurriedly went on: “You treat me like a sick person or a child. I see it all. You weren’t like this six months ago.” “Lise, I beg you to stop,” Prince Andrei said still more expressively. Pierre, who was becoming more and more agitated during this conversation, got up and went over to the princess. He seemed unable to bear the sight of tears and was about to start crying himself. “Calm yourself, Princess. It seems so to you, because, I assure you, I myself have experienced…why…because…No, excuse me, an outsider is in the way here…No, calm yourself…Good-bye…” Prince Andrei caught him by the arm. “No, wait, Pierre. The princess is so good that she will not want to deprive me of the pleasure of spending an evening with you.” “No, he thinks only of himself,” said the princess, not holding back her angry tears. “Lise,” Prince Andrei said drily, raising his tone to a degree which showed that his patience had run out. Suddenly the angry, squirrel-like expression on the princess’s beautiful little face changed to an attractive and compassion-provoking expression of fear; her pretty eyes glanced from under her eyebrows at her husband, and her face acquired the timid and admissive look of a dog rapidly but weakly wagging its drooping tail. “Mon dieu, mon dieu!” said the princess, and taking up a fold of her dress in one hand, she went over to her husband and kissed him on the forehead. “Bonsoir, Lise,” *76 said Prince Andrei, standing up and kissing her hand politely, as if she were a stranger. The friends were silent. Neither of them would begin talking. Pierre kept glancing at Prince Andrei; Prince Andrei was rubbing his forehead with his small hand. “Let’s go and have supper,” he said with a sigh, getting up and heading for the door. They went into the elegantly, newly, richly decorated dining room. Everything from the napkins to the silverware, china, and crystal bore that special stamp of newness that is found in the households of the recently married. In the middle of supper, the prince leaned his elbow on the table and, with an expression of nervous irritation such as Pierre had never seen in his friend before, began to talk, like a man who has long had something on his heart and suddenly decides to speak it out: “Never, never marry, my friend. Here’s my advice to you: don’t marry until you can tell yourself that you’ve done all you could, and until you’ve stopped loving the woman you’ve chosen, until you see her clearly, otherwise you’ll be cruelly and irremediably mistaken. Marry when you’re old and good for nothing…Otherwise all that’s good and lofty in you will be lost. It will all go on trifles. Yes, yes, yes! Don’t look at me with such astonishment. If you expect something from yourself in the future, then at every step you’ll feel that it’s all over for you, it’s all closed, except the drawing room, where you’ll stand on the same level as a court flunkey and an idiot…Ah, well!…” He waved his hand energetically. Pierre took off his spectacles, which made his face change, expressing still more kindness, and looked at his friend in astonishment. “My wife,” Prince Andrei went on, “is a wonderful woman. She’s one of those rare women with whom one can be at ease regarding one’s own honor; but, my God, what wouldn’t I give now not to be married! You’re the first and only one I’m saying this to, because I love you.” Prince Andrei, in saying this, was less than ever like that Bolkonsky who sat sprawled in Anna Pavlovna’s armchair and, narrowing his eyes, uttered French phrases through his teeth. His dry face was all aquiver with the nervous animation of every muscle; his eyes, in which the fire of life had seemed extinguished, now shone with a bright, radiant brilliance. One could see that, the more lifeless he seemed in ordinary times, the more energetic he was in moments of irritation. “You don’t understand why I’m saying this,” he went on. “Yet it’s a whole life’s story. You talk of Bonaparte and his career,” he said, though Pierre had not talked of Bonaparte. “You talk of Bonaparte; but Bonaparte, when he was working, went step by step towards his goal, he was free, he had nothing except his goal—and he reached it. But bind yourself to a woman—and, like a prisoner in irons, you lose all freedom. And whatever hope and strength you have in you, it all only burdens and torments you with remorse. Drawing rooms, gossip, balls, vanity, triviality—that is the vicious circle I can’t get out of. I’m now going to the war, to the greatest war that has ever been, yet I know nothing and am good for nothing. Je suis très aimable et très caustique,” *77 Prince Andrei went on, “and they listen to me at Anna Pavlovna’s. And this stupid society, without which my wife cannot live, and these women…If you only knew what toutes les femmes distinguées †78 and women in general really are! My father is right. Egoism, vanity, dull-wittedness, triviality in everything—that’s women, when they show themselves as they are. Looking at them in society, it seems there’s something there, but there’s nothing, nothing, nothing! No, don’t marry, dear heart, don’t marry,” Prince Andrei concluded. “I find it funny,” said Pierre, “that you, you yourself, consider that you have no ability and that your life is a ruined life. You have everything, everything ahead of you. And you…” He did not say you what, but his tone already showed how highly he valued his friend and how much he expected from him in the future. “How can he say that!” thought Pierre. Pierre considered Prince Andrei the model of all perfections, precisely because Prince Andrei united in the highest degree all those qualities which Pierre did not possess and which could be most nearly expressed by the notion of strength of will. Pierre always marveled at Prince Andrei’s ability to deal calmly with all sorts of people, at his extraordinary memory, his erudition (he had read everything, knew everything, had notions about everything), and most of all at his ability to work and learn. If Pierre had often been struck by Andrei’s lack of ability for dreamy philosophizing (for which Pierre had a particular inclination), he saw it not as a defect, but as a strength. In the best, the friendliest and simplest relations, flattery or praise is necessary, just as grease is necessary to keep wheels turning. “Je suis un homme fini,” *79 said Prince Andrei. “Why talk about me? Let’s talk about you,” he said, pausing and smiling at his comforting thoughts. This smile was instantly reflected on Pierre’s face. “But what is there to say about me?” asked Pierre, spreading his mouth into a carefree, merry smile. “What am I? Je suis un bâtard!” And he suddenly flushed crimson. One could see that it had cost him great effort to say that. “Sans nom, sans fortune †80 …And what, really…” But he did not say what really. “I’m free so far, and I feel fine. Only I have no idea where to make my start. I seriously wanted to ask your advice.” Prince Andrei looked at him with kindly eyes. But in his friendly, gentle gaze a consciousness of his own superiority still showed. “You’re dear to me especially because you’re the only live person in our whole society. That’s fine for you. Choose whatever you like; it’s all the same. You’ll be fine anywhere, but there’s one thing: stop going to those Kuragins and leading that sort of life. It simply doesn’t suit you: all this carousing with hussars, and all…” “Que voulez-vous, mon cher,” said Pierre, shrugging his shoulders, “les femmes, mon cher, les femmes!” ‡81 “I don’t understand,” replied Andrei. “Les femmes comme il faut are another matter; but les femmes of Kuragin, les femmes et le vin, §82 I don’t understand!” Pierre lived at Prince Vassily Kuragin’s and took part in the dissolute life of his son Anatole, the same one they planned to marry to Prince Andrei’s sister in order to reform him. “You know what?” said Pierre, as if a lucky thought had unexpectedly occurred to him. “Seriously, I’ve been thinking that for a long time. With this life I can’t decide or even consider anything. I have a headache and no money. He invited me tonight, but I won’t go.” “Give me your word of honor that you won’t go anymore?” “Word of honor!” It was already past one o’clock when Pierre left his friend’s house. It was a duskless Petersburg June night. Pierre got into a hired carriage with the intention of going home. But the closer he came, the more he felt the impossibility of falling asleep on that night, which more resembled an evening or a morning. One could see far down the empty streets. On the way, Pierre recalled that the usual gambling company was to gather at Anatole Kuragin’s that evening, after which there was usually drinking, ending with one of Pierre’s favorite amusements. “It would be nice to go to Kuragin’s,” he thought. But at once he remembered the word of honor he had given Prince Andrei not to visit Kuragin. But at once, as happens with so-called characterless people, he desired so passionately to experience again that dissolute life so familiar to him, that he decided to go. And at once the thought occurred to him that the word he had given meant nothing, because before giving his word to Prince Andrei, he had also given Prince Anatole his word that he would be there; finally he thought that all these words of honor were mere conventions, with no definite meaning, especially if you considered that you might die the next day, or something so extraordinary might happen to you that there would no longer be either honor or dishonor. That sort of reasoning often came to Pierre, destroying all his decisions and suppositions. He went to Kuragin’s. Driving up to the porch of a large house near the horse guards’ barracks, in which Anatole lived, he went up the lighted porch, the stairs, and entered an open door. There was no one in the front hall; empty bottles, capes, galoshes were lying about; there was a smell of wine, the noise of distant talking and shouting. Cards and supper were over, but the guests had not dispersed yet. Pierre threw off his cape and went into the first room, where the remains of supper lay and one lackey, thinking no one could see him, was finishing on the sly what was left of the wine in the glasses. From the third room came a racket, guffawing, the shouting of familiar voices, and the roaring of a bear. Some eight young men were crowded busily by an open window. Three were romping with a young bear, one of them dragging it by a chain, trying to frighten the others. “I stake a hundred on Stevens!” shouted one. “Make sure there’s no holding on!” shouted another. “I’m for Dolokhov!” cried a third. “Break the grip, Kuragin.” 23 “Let Bruin be, we’re making a bet.” “At one go, otherwise you lose,” shouted a fourth. “Yakov! Let’s have a bottle, Yakov!” shouted the host himself, a tall, handsome man, who was standing in the midst of the crowd in nothing but a fine shirt open on his chest. “Wait, gentlemen. Here’s Petrusha, my dear friend,” he turned to Pierre. Another voice, that of a not very tall man with clear blue eyes, especially striking amidst all these drunken voices by its sober expression, shouted from the window: “Come here—break the grip!” This was Dolokhov, an officer of the Semyonovsky regiment, a notorious gambler and duellist, who lived with Anatole. Pierre smiled, looking around merrily. “I don’t understand a thing. What’s up?” he asked. “Wait, he’s not drunk. Give me a bottle,” said Anatole, and taking a glass from the table, he went up to Pierre. “First of all, drink.” Pierre started drinking glass after glass, looking from under his brows at the drunken guests, who again crowded by the window, and listening to their talk. Anatole poured the wine for him and told him that Dolokhov was making a bet with the Englishman Stevens, a sailor who was there, that he, Dolokhov, could drink a bottle of rum sitting in the third-floor window with his legs hanging out. “Well, drink it all,” said Anatole, handing Pierre the last glass, “otherwise I won’t let you go!” “No, I don’t want to,” said Pierre, pushing Anatole away, and he went over to the window. Dolokhov was holding the Englishman by the hand and clearly, distinctly articulating the terms of the bet, mainly addressing Anatole and Pierre. Dolokhov was a man of medium height, curly-haired and with light blue eyes. He was about twenty-five. Like all infantry officers, he wore no mustache, and his mouth, the most striking feature of his face, was entirely visible. The lines of his mouth were remarkably finely curved. In the middle, the upper lip came down energetically on the sturdy lower lip in a sharp wedge, and at the corners something like two smiles were constantly formed, one on each side; and all of that together, especially combined with a firm, insolent, intelligent gaze, made up such an expression that it was impossible not to notice this face. Dolokhov was not a rich man and had no connections. And though Anatole ran through tens of thousands, Dolokhov lived with him and managed to place himself so that Anatole and all those who knew them respected Dolokhov more than Anatole. Dolokhov gambled at all games and almost always won. No matter how much he drank, he never lost his clearheadedness. Kuragin and Dolokhov were both celebrities at that time in the world of Petersburg scapegraces and carousers. A bottle of rum was brought. Two lackeys were tearing out the frame that prevented one from sitting on the outer ledge of the window; they were obviously hurrying and intimidated by the orders and shouts of the surrounding gentlemen. Anatole went up to the window with his victorious look. He wanted to break something. He pushed the lackeys away and pulled at the frame, but the frame did not yield. He smashed a pane. “You next, strongman,” he turned to Pierre. Pierre took hold of the crosspieces, pulled, and, with a crash, here broke and there ripped out the oak frame. “Away with all of it, otherwise they’ll think I’m holding on,” said Dolokhov. “The Englishman’s boasting…eh?…all right?…” said Anatole. “All right,” said Pierre, looking at Dolokhov, who, holding the bottle of rum in his hand, was approaching the window, through which the light of the sky could be seen and the glow of morning and evening merging in it. Dolokhov jumped up into the window with the bottle of rum in his hand. “Listen!” he shouted, standing on the windowsill and turning to the room. Everyone fell silent. “I put down” (he spoke in French so that the Englishman would understand him, and he did not speak the language all that well), “I put down fifty imperials —want to make it a hundred?” he added, addressing the Englishman. “No, fifty,” said the Englishman. “Very well, fifty imperials, that I will drink a whole bottle of rum, without taking it from my lips, drink it sitting outside the window, on this place” (he bent down and indicated the sloping ledge outside the window), “and without holding on to anything…Right?…” “Very good,” said the Englishman. Anatole turned to the Englishman and, taking him by the button of his tailcoat and looking at him from above (the Englishman was short), began repeating the terms of the bet to him in English. “Wait,” cried Dolokhov, tapping the bottle against the window to attract attention. “Wait, Kuragin; listen. If anybody else does the same, I’ll pay him a hundred imperials. Understood?” The Englishman nodded his head, in no way making clear whether he did or did not accept this new bet. Anatole did not let go of the Englishman, and though he had nodded to show he had understood everything, Anatole translated Dolokhov’s words into English for him. A young, lean boy, a life-hussar, who had gambled away everything that evening, climbed up on the window, stuck his head out, and looked down. “Oooh!” he said, looking out the window at the stone of the pavement. “Attention!” cried Dolokhov and pulled the officer from the window. Getting tangled in his spurs, the boy jumped down awkwardly into the room. After placing the bottle on the windowsill to have it conveniently at hand, Dolokhov slowly and carefully climbed into the window. Lowering his legs and spreading both hands against the sides of the window, he tried his position, settled himself, let go with his hands, shifted a little to the right, to the left, and took the bottle. Anatole brought two candles and set them on the windowsill, though it was already quite light. Dolokhov’s back in its white shirt and his curly head were lit up from both sides. Everyone crowded by the window. The Englishman stood in front. Pierre smiled and said nothing. One of those present, older than the others, with a frightened and angry face, suddenly moved forward and was about to seize Dolokhov by the shirt. “Gentlemen, this is stupid; he’ll kill himself,” said this more reasonable man. Anatole stopped him. “Don’t touch, you’ll frighten him, and he’ll be killed. Eh?…What then?… Eh?…” Dolokhov turned, adjusting his position, and again spreading his hands. “If anybody else tries to get at me,” he said, slowly forcing the words through his compressed and thin lips, “I’ll chuck him down from here right now. So!…” Having said “So!” he turned back again, let go with his hands, took the bottle and put it to his lips, threw his head back, and thrust his free arm up for balance. One of the lackeys, who had begun picking up the glass, stopped in a bent position, not taking his eyes from the window and Dolokhov’s back. Anatole stood erect, his eyes gaping. The Englishman, his lips thrust out, watched from the side. The man who had tried to stop them rushed to the corner of the room and lay down on a sofa, face to the wall. Pierre covered his face, and a faint smile remained forgotten on it, though it now expressed terror and fear. Everyone was silent. Pierre took his hands away from his eyes. Dolokhov was sitting in the same position, only his head was thrown far back, so that the curly hair of his nape touched the collar of his shirt, and the hand holding the bottle rose higher and higher, trembling and making an effort. The bottle was apparently emptying and rising at the same time, pushing the head back. “Why is it taking so long?” thought Pierre. It seemed to him that more than half an hour had gone by. Suddenly Dolokhov made a backward movement, and his arm trembled nervously; this shudder was enough to shift his whole body, which was sitting on the sloping ledge. He shifted completely, and his arm and head trembled still more from the effort. One arm rose to take hold of the windowsill, but lowered itself again. Pierre again shut his eyes and said to himself that he was never going to open them. Suddenly he felt everything around him stirring. He looked: Dolokhov was standing on the windowsill, his face pale and merry. “Empty!” He tossed the bottle to the Englishman, who deftly caught it. Dolokhov jumped down from the window. He smelled strongly of rum. “Excellent! Good boy! There’s a bet for you! Devil take you all!” they cried on all sides. The Englishman, having produced his purse, counted out the money. Dolokhov frowned and said nothing. Pierre climbed into the window. “Gentlemen! Who wants to make a bet with me? I’ll do the same thing,” he suddenly shouted. “And there’s no need for a bet, that’s what. Tell them to bring a bottle. I’ll do it…tell them.” “Let him, let him!” said Dolokhov, smiling. “What, have you lost your mind? Who’d let you? You get dizzy on the stairs,” came from various sides. “I’ll drink it, give me a bottle of rum!” Pierre cried, pounding the table with a determined and drunken gesture, and he climbed into the window. They seized him by the arms; but he was so strong that he pushed those who came near him far away. “No, you won’t get anywhere with him that way,” said Anatole. “Wait, I’ll trick him. Listen, I’ll make a bet with you, but tomorrow, and now let’s all go to the * * *.” “Let’s go,” cried Pierre, “let’s go!…And we’ll take Bruin with us…” And he seized the bear and, hugging him and lifting him up, began waltzing around the room with him. Prince Vassily fulfilled the promise he had given at Anna Pavlovna’s soirée to Princess Drubetskoy, who had solicited him for her only son Boris. A report on him was made to the sovereign, and, unlike others, he was transferred to the Semyonovsky guards regiment as an ensign. But Boris was not to be appointed adjutant or attaché to Kutuzov, despite all Anna Mikhailovna’s soliciting and scheming. Soon after Anna Pavlovna’s soirée, Anna Mikhailovna returned to Moscow, straight to her rich relations, the Rostovs, with whom she stayed in Moscow, and with whom her adored Borenka, just made an ensign in the army and transferred to the guards, had been brought up and had lived for years. The guards had already left Petersburg on the tenth of August, and her son, who had remained in Moscow to equip himself, was to catch up with them on the way to Radzivilov. At the Rostovs’ it was the name day of the Natalyas, mother and younger daughter. 24 Since morning, coach and sixes had constantly been driving up and leaving, bringing people with congratulations to the big house of the countess Rostov on Povarskaya Street, which was known to all Moscow. The countess with her beautiful older daughter and the guests, who constantly replaced each other, were sitting in the drawing room. The countess was a woman with a thin, Oriental type of face, forty-five years old, evidently worn out by children, of whom she had had twelve. The slowness of her movements and speech, caused by weakness, gave her an air of importance that inspired respect. Princess Anna Mikhailovna Drubetskoy, as a member of the household, sat right there, helping with the business of receiving the guests and occupying them with conversation. The young people were in the back rooms, finding it unnecessary to take part in receiving visits. The count met the guests and saw them off, inviting them all to dinner. “Much obliged to you, ma chère or mon cher” (he said ma chère or mon cher to everyone without exception and without the slightest nuance, whether they were of higher or lower standing than himself), “for myself and the dear nameday ladies. See that you come for dinner. You’ll offend me if you don’t, mon cher. I cordially invite you on behalf of the whole family, ma chère.” These words he said with the same expression on his full, cheerful, and clean-shaven face, with the same strong handshake and repeated short bows, to everyone without exception or variation. Having seen off a guest, the count would return to the gentleman or lady who was still in the drawing room; moving up an armchair, and with the look of a man who loves life and knows how to live it, spreading his legs dashingly and putting his hands on his knees, he would sway significantly, offer his surmises about the weather, discuss health, sometimes in Russian, sometimes in very poor but self-confident French, and again, with the look of a man weary but firm in the fulfillment of his duty, would go to see people off, smoothing the thin gray hair over his bald spot, and again invite them to dinner. Occasionally, on returning from the front hall, he would pass through the conservatory and the servants’ room to a big marble hall, where a table of eighty settings was being laid, and, looking at the servants carrying silver and china, opening out tables, and spreading damask tablecloths, he would call Dmitri Vassilievich, a nobleman who managed all his affairs, and say: “Well, well, Mitenka, see that it’s all nice. Right, right,” he would say, looking over the enormous, opened-out table. “The main thing’s the setout. So, so…” And, sighing self-contentedly, he would go back to the drawing room. “Marya Lvovna Karagin with daughter!” the countess’s enormous footman announced in a bass voice, coming to the door of the drawing room. The countess pondered and took a pinch from a gold snuffbox with her husband’s portrait on it. “I’m worn out with these visits,” she said. “Well, she’ll be the last I receive. She’s so prim. Ask her in,” she said to the footman in a sad voice, as if to say: “Well, so finish me off.” A tall, stout, proud-looking lady and her round-faced, smiling daughter came into the room, rustling their skirts. “Chère comtesse, il y a si longtemps…elle a été alitée, la pauvre enfant…au bal des Razoumowsky…et la comtesse Apraksine…j’ai été si heureuse…” *83 women’s voices were heard, interrupting each other and merging with the rustling of skirts and the moving of chairs. That sort of conversation began which is designed to last just long enough so that one can get up at the first pause, with a rustling of skirts, say, “Je suis bien charmée; la santé de maman… et la comtesse Apraksine,” *84 and again, with a rustling of skirts, go back to the front hall, put on a fur coat or a cloak, and drive off. The conversation turned to the main news of the town at that time—the illness of the rich and famous beau of Catherine’s time, old Count Bezukhov, and his illegitimate son Pierre, who had behaved so improperly at Anna Pavlovna Scherer’s soirée. “I’m very sorry for the poor count,” said the guest. “He was in poor health to begin with, and now this distress on account of his son. It will kill him!” “What do you mean?” asked the countess, as if she did not know what the guest was talking about, though she had already heard the cause of Count Bezukhov’s distress a good fifteen times. “It’s modern upbringing! While still abroad,” the guest went on, “this young man was left to himself, and now in Petersburg, they say, he did such awful things that he’s been banished by the police.” “You don’t say!” said the countess. “He chose his acquaintances poorly,” Princess Anna Mikhailovna mixed in. “Prince Vassily’s son, he and a certain Dolokhov, they say, were up to God knows what. And they’ve both suffered for it. Dolokhov has been broken to the ranks, and Bezukhov’s son has been banished to Moscow. As for Anatole Kuragin—his father somehow hushed it up. But they did banish him from Petersburg.” “Why, what on earth did they do?” asked the countess. “They’re perfect ruffians, especially Dolokhov,” said the guest. “He’s the son of Marya Ivanovna Dolokhov, such a respectable lady, and what then? Can you imagine: the three of them found a bear somewhere, put it in the carriage with them, and went to the actresses. The police came running to quiet them down. They took a policeman and tied him back to back with the bear, and threw the bear into the Moika. So the bear goes swimming about with the policeman on him.” “A fine figure the policeman must have cut, ma chère,” cried the count, dying with laughter. “Ah, how terrible! What is there to laugh at, Count?” But the ladies could not help laughing themselves. “They barely managed to save the poor fellow,” the guest went on. “That’s how intelligently the son of Count Kirill Vladimirovich Bezukhov amuses himself!” she added. “And I heard he was so well-bred and intelligent. There’s what all this foreign upbringing leads to. I hope no one receives him here, despite his wealth. They wanted to introduce him to me. I decidedly refused: I have daughters.” “What makes you say this young man is so wealthy?” asked the countess, leaning away from the girls, who at once pretended they were not listening. “The man has only illegitimate children. It seems…Pierre, too, is illegitimate.” The guest waved her hand. “He has a score of them, I should think.” Princess Anna Mikhailovna mixed into the conversation, clearly wishing to show her connections and her knowledge of all the circumstances of society. “The thing is this,” she said significantly and also in a half whisper. “Count Kirill Vladimirovich’s reputation is well-known…He’s lost count of his children, but this Pierre was his favorite.” “How good-looking the old man was,” said the countess, “even last year! I’ve never seen a handsomer man.” “He’s quite changed now,” said Anna Mikhailovna. “So, as I was about to say,” she went on, “Prince Vassily is the direct heir to the whole fortune through his wife, but the father loved Pierre very much, concerned himself with his upbringing, and wrote to the sovereign…so that when he dies (he’s so poorly that they expect it any moment, and Lorrain has come from Petersburg), no one knows who will get this enormous fortune, Pierre or Prince Vassily. Forty thousand souls, 25 and millions of roubles. I know it very well, because Prince Vassily told me himself. And Kirill Vladimirovich is my uncle twice removed through my mother. And he’s Borya’s godfather,” she added, as if ascribing no importance to this circumstance. “Prince Vassily came to Moscow yesterday. He’s going to do some inspecting, I’m told,” said the guest. “Yes, but entre nous,” *85 said the countess, “it’s a pretext. He’s come, essentially, to see Count Kirill Vladimirovich, having learned that he was so poorly.” “However, ma chère, that was a nice stunt,” said the count and, noticing that the elder guest was not listening, he turned to the young ladies. “A fine figure that policeman cut, I imagine.” And, picturing how the policeman waved his arms, he again burst into resounding, bass-voiced laughter, which shook his whole stout body, as people laugh who always eat, and especially drink, very well. “So please do come for dinner,” he said. Silence ensued. The countess looked at the guest with a pleasant smile, without concealing, however, that she would not be upset in the least now if the guest got up and left. The guest’s daughter was already smoothing her dress, looking questioningly at her mother, when suddenly from the neighboring room came the sound of several men’s and women’s feet running to the door, the crash of a tripped-over and fallen chair, and a thirteen-year-old girl ran in, bundling something in her short muslin skirt, and stopped in the middle of the room. It was obvious that she had run so far inadvertently, miscalculating the distance. At the same moment a student in a raspberry-colored collar, 26 an officer of the guards, a fifteen-year-old girl, and a fat, red-cheeked boy in a child’s jacket appeared in the doorway. The count jumped up and, swaying, spread his arms wide around the running girl. “Ah, here she is!” he shouted, laughing. “The name-day girl! Ma chère nameday girl!” “Ma chère, il y a un temps pour tout,” *86 said the countess, feigning sternness. “You always spoil her, Élie,” she added to her husband. “Bonjour, ma chère, je vous félicite,” said the guest. “Quelle délicieuse enfant!” †87 she added, turning to the mother. The dark-eyed, big-mouthed, not beautiful, but lively girl, with her child’s bare shoulders popping out of her bodice from running fast, with her black ringlets all thrown back, her thin, bare arms, her little legs in lace-trimmed knickers and low shoes, was at that sweet age when a girl is no longer a child, but the child is not yet a young lady. Wriggling out of her father’s arms, she ran to her mother and, paying no attention to her stern remark, buried her flushed face in her mother’s lace mantilla and laughed. She laughed at something, talking fitfully about the doll she took out from under her skirt. “You see?…My doll…Mimi…You see…” And Natasha could say no more (everything seemed funny to her). She fell on her mother and burst into such loud and ringing laughter that everyone else, even the prim guest, laughed involuntarily. “Well, off you go, off you go, you and that ugly thing!” said the mother, pushing her daughter away with feigned gruffness. “This is my younger one,” she turned to her guest. Natasha, tearing her face momentarily from her mother’s lace wrap, looked up at her through tears of laughter and hid her face again. The guest, forced to admire the family scene, found it necessary to take some part in it. “Tell me, my dear,” she said, addressing Natasha, “what is this Mimi to you? Your daughter, it must be?” Natasha did not like the tone of condescension to childish talk in which the guest addressed her. She made no reply and gave the guest a serious look. Meanwhile all this younger generation—Boris, the officer, son of Princess Anna Mikhailovna; Nikolai, the student, the count’s eldest son; Sonya, the count’s fifteen-year-old niece; and little Petrusha, the youngest son—all settled themselves in the drawing room and obviously tried to keep within the limits of propriety the animation and gaiety which their every feature still breathed. It was clear that there in the back rooms, from which they had all come running so precipitously, the talk was merrier than the talk here about town gossip, the weather, and the comtesse Apraksine. They glanced at each other from time to time and could barely hold back their laughter. The two young men, the student and the officer, friends from childhood, were of the same age and both handsome, but they did not resemble each other. Boris was a tall, blond youth with the regular, fine features of a calm and handsome face. Nikolai was a curly-haired young man, not very tall, and with an open expression of the face. On his upper lip a little black hair had already appeared, and his whole face expressed impetuousness and rapturousness. Nikolai blushed as soon as he came into the drawing room. One could see that he was searching for something to say and could not find it. Boris, on the other hand, got his bearings at once and told calmly, jokingly, how he had known this Mimi, the doll, when she was still a young girl, with an unspoiled nose, how she had grown old in the five years he remembered, and how her head had gotten cracked across the entire skull. Having said this, he glanced at Natasha. Natasha turned away from him, glanced at her younger brother, who, with his eyes shut tight, was shaking with soundless laughter, and, unable to hold herself back any longer, jumped down and ran out of the room as fast as her quick feet would carry her. Boris did not laugh. “I believe you also wanted to go, maman? Do you need a carriage?” he said, turning to his mother with a smile. “Yes, go, go, tell them to make ready,” she said, smiling. Boris quietly went to the door and followed Natasha out; the fat boy angrily ran after them, as if vexed at the disturbance that had interfered with his pursuits. Of the young people, not including the countess’s elder daughter (who was four years older than her sister and already behaved like an adult), and the young lady guest, only Nikolai and the niece Sonya remained in the drawing room. Sonya was a slender, diminutive brunette with a soft gaze shaded by long eyelashes, a thick black braid wound twice around her head, and a sallow tinge to the skin of her face and especially of her bared, lean, but gracefully muscular arms and neck. In the smoothness of her movements, the softness and suppleness of her small limbs, and her somewhat sly and reserved manner, she resembled a pretty but not yet fully formed kitten, which would one day be a lovely little cat. She evidently considered it the proper thing to show by a smile her interest in the general conversation; but, against her will, her eyes under their long, thick lashes kept looking with such passionate girlish adoration at her cousin, who was leaving for the army, that her smile could not deceive anyone for a moment, and it was clear that the little cat crouched down only in order to leap up more energetically and play with her cousin as soon as they, like Boris and Natasha, could get out of this drawing room. “Yes, ma chère,” said the old count, addressing the guest and pointing to his Nikolai. “Here his friend Boris has just been made an officer, and out of friendship he doesn’t want to lag behind; he’s leaving both the university and his old father: he’s going into the army, ma chère. And a post had already been prepared for him in the archives and all. 27 Isn’t that friendship?” the count said questioningly. “Yes, they say war has been declared,” said the guest. “They’ve been saying it for a long time,” said the count. “Again they’ll talk and talk and leave it at that. Ma chère, that’s friendship!” he repeated. “He’s joining the hussars.” The guest, not knowing what to say, shook her head. “Not at all out of friendship,” replied Nikolai, blushing and protesting, as if it was a shameful calumny. “It’s not friendship, I simply feel a calling for military service.” He shot a glance at his cousin and the young lady guest: they both looked at him with a smile of approval. “Tonight Schubert will be dining with us, a colonel in the Pavlogradsky hussar regiment. He’s been on leave here and is taking him along. What to do?” said the count, shrugging his shoulders and speaking jokingly about a matter that obviously cost him much grief. “I’ve already told you, papa,” said his son, “that if you don’t want to let me go, I’ll stay. But I know I’m not good for anything but military service; I’m not a diplomat, not a functionary, I’m unable to hide my feelings,” he said, glancing all the while with the coquetry of a handsome youth at Sonya and the young lady guest. The little cat fixed her eyes on him and seemed ready at any instant to begin playing and show all her cat nature. “Well, well, all right!” said the old count. “He keeps getting heated up. It’s this Bonaparte who’s turned all their heads; they all wonder how it is that from the lieutenants he landed among the emperors. Well, God grant it,” he added, not noticing the guest’s mocking smile. The adults began talking about Bonaparte. Julie, Mme Karagin’s daughter, turned to the young Rostov: “What a pity you weren’t at the Arkharovs’ on Thursday. I was bored without you,” she said, smiling tenderly at him. The flattered young man, with the coquettish smile of youth, sat closer to her and got into a separate conversation with the smiling Julie, completely unaware that his involuntary smile cut the heart of the blushing and falsely smiling Sonya with the knife of jealousy. In the middle of the conversation, he turned to look at her. Sonya gave him a passionately angry look and, barely holding back the tears in her eyes, with a false smile on her lips, got up and left the room. All of Nikolai’s animation vanished. He waited for the first lull in the conversaton and with an upset face left the room to look for Sonya. “How crystal clear all these young ones’ secrets are!” said Anna Mikhailovna, pointing to Nikolai as he left. “Cousinage dangereux voisinage,” *88 she added. “Yes,” said the countess, when the ray of sunlight that had penetrated the room with the young generation vanished, and as if answering a question no one had asked her, but which constantly preoccupied her. “So much suffering, so much anxiety endured so as to rejoice in them now! And now, too, there’s really more fear than joy. One is afraid, always afraid! It’s precisely the age when there are so many dangers both for girls and for boys.” “Everything depends on upbringing,” said the guest. “Yes, true for you,” the countess went on. “Up to now, thank God, I’ve been a friend to my children and have enjoyed their full trust,” said the countess, repeating the error of many parents who suppose that their children have no secrets from them. “I know that I’ll always be my daughters’ first confidente and that if Nikolenka, with his fiery character, gets up to some mischief (boys can’t do without it), it still won’t be the same as with these Petersburg gentlemen.” “Yes, nice, nice children,” agreed the count, who always resolved all tangled questions by finding everything nice. “Just look at him! Decided to be a hussar! Well, what do you want, ma chère!” “What a sweet creature your younger one is!” said the guest. “A ball of fire!” “Yes, a ball of fire,” said the count. “She takes after me! And what a voice! Though she’s my daughter, I’ll tell you the truth: she’ll be a singer, another Salomoni. We’ve hired an Italian to teach her.” “Isn’t it too early? They say it harms the voice to study at that age.” “Oh, no, not too early at all!” said the count. “How is it, then, that our mothers got married when they were twelve or thirteen?” “She’s already in love with Boris now! What a one!” said the countess, smiling quietly, looking at Boris’s mother, and, evidently responding to the thought that always preoccupied her, she went on: “Well, so you see, if I were strict with her, if I forbade her…God knows what they’d do on the sly” (the countess meant they would be kissing), “but now I know her every word. She’ll come running to me herself in the evening and tell me everything. I may be spoiling her, but it really seems better. I was strict with the elder one.” “Yes, I was brought up quite differently,” said the elder one, the beautiful Countess Vera, smiling. But the smile did not embellish Vera’s face, as usually happens; on the contrary, her face became unnatural and therefore unpleasant. The elder one, Vera, was good-looking, far from stupid, an excellent student, well-brought-up, had a pleasant voice, and what she said was correct and appropriate; but, strangely, everyone, both the guest and the countess, turned to look at her, as if wondering why she had said it, and they felt awkward. “One is always too clever with the older children, wanting to do something extraordinary,” said the guest. “There’s no use denying it, ma chère! The dear countess was too clever with Vera,” said the count. “Well, so what! She still turned out nice,” he added, winking at Vera approvingly. The guests got up and left, promising to come for dinner. “What manners! They sat and sat!” said the countess, after seeing the guests off. When Natasha left the drawing room and ran off, she ran no further than the conservatory. In that room she stopped, listening to the talk in the drawing room and waiting for Boris to come out. She was already growing impatient and, stamping her little foot, was about to cry because he did not come at once, when she heard the neither slow nor quick, but proper footsteps of the young man. Natasha quickly darted among the tubs of plants and hid herself. Boris stopped in the middle of the room, looking around, brushed some specks of dust off the sleeve of his uniform with his hand, and went up to a mirror, studying his handsome face. Natasha kept still, peeking from her ambush, waiting to see what he would do. He stood for some time before the mirror, smiled, and walked to the other door. Natasha was about to call him, but then changed her mind. “Let him search,” she said to herself. As soon as Boris left, the flushed Sonya came from the other door, whispering something spitefully through her tears. Natasha restrained her first impulse to rush out to her and remained in her ambush, as if under the cap of invisibility, observing what went on in the world. She experienced a special new pleasure. Sonya was whispering something and kept looking back at the door of the drawing room. Nikolai came out of that door. “Sonya! what’s wrong? how can you?” said Nikolai, rushing to her. “Never mind, never mind, leave me alone!” Sonya burst into sobs. “No, I know what it is.” “So you know, and that’s wonderful, and so go to her.” “So-o-onya! One word! How can you torment me and yourself so because of a fantasy?” said Nikolai, taking her hand. Sonya did not pull her hand away and stopped crying. Natasha, motionless and breathless, with shining eyes, watched from behind her ambush. “What will happen now?” she thought. “Sonya! The whole world is no use to me! You alone are everything,” said Nikolai. “I’ll prove it to you.” “I don’t like it when you talk like that.” “Well, then I won’t, well, forgive me, Sonya!” He drew her to him and kissed her. “Ah, how nice!” thought Natasha, and when Sonya and Nikolai left the room, she went out after them and called Boris. “Boris, come here,” she said with a significant and sly air. “There’s something I must tell you. Here, here,” she said and led him to the conservatory, to the place between the tubs where she had been hiding. Boris, smiling, followed her. “What is this something?” he asked. She became embarrassed, looked around, and, seeing her doll abandoned on a tub, took it in her hands. “Kiss the doll,” she said. Boris looked into her animated face with attentive, gentle eyes and said nothing. “You don’t want to? Well, come here, then,” she said and went deeper among the plants and dropped her doll. “Closer, closer!” she whispered. She caught the officer by the cuffs with both hands, and her flushed face showed solemnity and fear. “And do you want to kiss me?” she whispered barely audibly, looking at him from under her eyebrows, smiling and almost weeping with excitement. Boris blushed. “You’re so funny!” he said, bending down to her, blushing still more, but not undertaking anything and waiting. She suddenly jumped up onto a tub, becoming taller than he, embraced him with her thin, bare arms, which bent higher than his neck, and, tossing her hair back with a movement of the head, kissed him right on the lips. She slipped between the pots to the other side of the plants and stopped, her head lowered. “Natasha,” he said, “you know I love you, but…” “You’re in love with me?” Natasha interrupted. “Yes, I am, but, please, let’s not do like just now…Another four years…Then I’ll ask for your hand.” Natasha reflected. “Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen…” she said, counting on her thin little fingers. “All right! So it’s settled?” And a smile of joy and reassurance lit up her animated face. “Settled!” said Boris. “Forever?” said the girl. “Till death?” And, taking him under the arm, with a happy face she slowly walked beside him to the sitting room. 
